[Music]
This is still a techdriven market.
>> Large cap US market itself has been the
place to be.
>> In general, things have been drifting
more positive.
>> Valuations are toppy, but generally
firms are performing.
>> Valuation is always in our mind, but at
the end of the day, valuation alone is
something that doesn't end bull markets.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, doubling down on rate
cuts. Weaker economic data reinforcing
the case for dropping interest rates as
Fed nominee Steven Meyer is gearing up
for a grilling on Capitol Hill.
Investors are putting additional weight
on this morning's ADP report. that jobs
number very much in focus.
>> And my question is, how does the market
respond? Is it potentially more at risk
from a strong number or a weak number?
Because yesterday, I'm sorry because I'm
just trying to trigger the person next
to me right now. But what we saw was bad
news was good news for the market. And
what we saw was a Jules report that came
in lighter than expected caused a rally
in bonds that allowed a rally in stocks
to continue. So what do you make of what
that means for today's ADP report?
>> Data this week hasn't been great. It's
been jolts. It's been the ISM. Beigebook
too. Lisa mentioned the Beige Book
yesterday. That beigebook did not make
for good reading at all for this Federal
Reserve.
>> There's no growth or very little growth.
And pretty much that's what you could
see across the board. Not only that, but
is classic stagflationary type of
dynamic. The idea of prices going up.
Almost all of the businesses talked
about uh some sort of inflationary
pressure from tariffs. At the same time,
they're not seeing expansion uh
opportunities. You put this together,
you say, "Okay, rate cuts. Is that
enough to juice demand and juice the uh
the animal spirits to come back? And
that I think is what markets are
grappling with.
>> So Steven Mren goes to Capitol Hill
confronting some of these issues. No
doubt looking for lower interest rates.
He's got this to say. The FOMC is an
independent group with a monumental task
and I intend to preserve that
independence.
>> This is going to be his entire stick
today. Federal independence. He wants to
be there to preserve it. He is going to
make that point crystal clear. It's
going to be very hot rhetoric when it
comes to Washington, when it comes to
Steve Meyer, when it comes to the
Democrats. They have made it very clear
that they are going to go after him and
basically make this a referendum on the
Trump administration, what they say has
a heavy hand when it comes to Fed
independence. But this is an individual
that was just confirmed in March, party
line by Republicans. There is no
question that Steve Meyer will be
confirmed. The question going in today
is the timeline. Will he be there for
September 16th? Can he make a credible
argument for lower interest rates
without being accused of being a puppet?
Now, who does he need to convince? It's
not the senator from Massachusetts. He
needs to convince the market that this
is a credible pick for an independent
institution. Forget the political noise
in the room. It's about the market
response to this pick that matters,
>> which is the reason why markets will be
watching this hearing. And right now, it
doesn't seem like it matters to a lot of
the Republican senators who will
probably confirm him. To your point,
Amory, he will be confirmed. What's his
definition though of independence?
Remember, he wrote a paper last year. He
co-authored a paper saying that the Fed
could preserve its independence by
allowing the president to more easily
replace some of the Fed members. So, the
definition of independence very much on
the table. Also, an open question is
whether or not he will keep his seat at
CEA. Can he even do that? Or when the
term is up at the Fed, will he go back
to the CE? Speaking of that paper he
wrote with Dan Katz, who's the chief of
staff of the Treasury Secretary. They
talked about the revolving door in
Washington between the Fed and the
executive branch. Well, he would
basically be part of that revolving
door. Then in this paper, he argues
there should be a four period, four-year
window.
>> He could do both. Connie, how many jobs
has Rubio got right now? Just sort of
tally them up.
>> At least three. At least three. And he
could build homes.
>> Yeah, exactly. Last week at the cabinet
meeting, I it was Marco Rubio. He said,
"I'm really going to be enjoying this
Labor Day cuz I have more jobs than I've
ever had." If you are just tuning in,
welcome to the program. Equities right
now positive by 210 of 1% on the S&P
500. Busy morning coming up this hour.
We'll catch up with Stuart Kaiser of
City with stocks looking to add weight
to the recent rebound. We'll speak to
David Wilcox of the Peterson Institute
as President Trump's pick for the Fed
heads to Capitol Hill and Mike Pal of
Black Rockck on the loss of macro
anchors. We begin this hour with stock
steady as investors await the latest
read on the US labor market. Stuart
Kaiser of City Rise the following. The
bar is fairly high for investors to move
into lower quality stocks given economic
uncertainty. Stu joins us now for more.
Stu, good morning.
>> Good morning. How are you?
>> Typically, I wouldn't be teasing ADP,
but this morning I'm teasing ADP. How
important is that data point now?
>> I mean, Marcus, don't react too much to
ADP, but you know, just given the
overall messaging going on. I mean,
claims more important than ADP, but but
probably both important. You've kind of
had a string of, you know, not not bad
economic data, but I guess I would call
it kind of questionable economic data.
Um and yeah there'll be a focus on it
but again it's it's kind of a second
tier labor market data I would say.
>> First tier tomorrow.
>> Yes.
>> Are you expecting strength or weakness?
Uh
>> I mean consensus is 75k. Our economists
are 45. So you know that the house view
is is a little bit to the weaker side.
Uh 45 or 40k or probably the bare
minimum equity markets are willing to
accept. I think anything below that
you'll probably get get a bit of a
pullback. But you know tomorrow I think
you know to Lisa's point is all about
rate cut expectations. And tomorrow can
maybe get you to pricing more than a
more than a full cut. I don't think it
can get you to pricing less than a full
cut. I mean, you would need just an
absolute blow blowout number to the
upside. And given the recent momentum
labor market data, it's going to be very
hard to get you sort of sub a full cut.
If you printed really weak, you probably
get, you know, you know, a cut and a
half priced or something like that.
>> I was trying to trigger you earlier. Did
I say
>> you're trying to trigger Emry? Actually,
>> I'm trying to trigger you because
ultimately you've always said good news
is good news and bad news is bad news.
And what your call is is essentially
reiterating that don't go down in
quality unless you believe that the
economy is really going to kick off. But
isn't what we saw yesterday in terms of
the response to the Jolts data an
indication that bad news could be good
news in terms of spurring rate cuts and
allowing the market to really get those
animal spirits under foot. I mean like
the very tactical reaction to that might
be positive but big picture if if the
labor market is slowing considerably and
the Fed feels kind of behind the curve
then that's that's negative for equity
markets because it's very hard to your
point for them to cut enough to kind of
you know rescue the economy or bail the
economy out quickly. So you know we're
still in the if you get a bad labor
market report that's that's negative for
US equity markets and you also use the
word stagflation and I wouldn't consider
stagflation to be good. Well, okay,
maybe not now. But if there is a feeling
of growth that's juiced by a Fed that
might not be responding exactly and only
to uh the economic data, but also to
political pressure, does that unleash
something new for you that might be
positive at least in the short term for
stocks, albeit potentially really
negative uh in the long term for bonds?
>> Uh I mean, look, I again if the Fed is
cutting for any reason that is a they're
being forced to, I policy is not
consistent with their dual mandate,
that's negative. And if they're cutting
because labor markets are weak, I think
that's negative. A little bit of what
you got yesterday too, I think was not
all related to the data in the US. You
know, foreign bond yields kind of
stabilized in the UK that allowed US
yields to kind of stabilize as well. So
I think you got a little bit of that
reverse spillover, however, however you
want to think about that. So it was a
little I I my view is it wasn't that
much about the data because I don't
really think you saw a meaningful change
in the pricing of September cuts anyway
on the jolts data. I mean two-year
guilts were down what about four basis
points. So there's something there. if
you want to talk yourself into a bullish
story. But again, the real bullish story
here is that economic growth is you
print 125k jobs and the Facebook surveys
start to skew a little more positive and
you actually have like a real growth
impulse. If if you're printing negative
jobs data, you know, an extra 25 basis
points isn't going to help the market, I
don't think.
>> When it comes to the data, you call
tomorrow's data first here. Is it put
into question though given the fact that
the president of the United States
basically says he doesn't believe the
BLS numbers anymore and wants to put in
putting a new commissioner at the top of
the institution?
>> Well, and that's why September 9th is
important. I think September 9th you get
BLS revisions and it's going to be very
interesting to see what they do there
and and and how President Trump reacts.
I mean, the market has to react to the
to the data that's in front of them.
Some might argue that ADP is cleaner
than BLS data because that's actual, you
know, you know, people on ADP payrolls.
But is that why ADP has taken on this
new importance because of the political
overhang on the BLS? I
>> I think that's part of it. Also, like
the last year or so ADP has typically
printed a little bit weaker than BLS
jobs data and then you've had large
negative revisions to BLS jobs data in
the future. So it actually looks like
ADP like it almost looks like the BLS
data has kind of converged to ADP. So
that's that's probably probably helped
it as well. I also think you're in a
market that right now is much more
comfortable with like quote unquote
alternative or new sources of data. And
I don't know if I'd call ADP that, but
it's it's a little more in that
direction.
>> You've alluded to it. We've been talking
about it around the table. The sneaky
bull case. What is the sneaky bull case
going into year end?
>> Like the sneaky bull case to me is is
corporate America kind of, you know,
went on siesta for 3 months as we dealt
with tax tariff and and immigration
uncertainty. And you know, as as you may
know with budgets, if you have a 2025
budget, it needs to be spent in 2025. So
that would be your bull case I think is
corporate America says all right we have
the the tax bill tax spending bill
passed we have a little bit more clarity
on on tariffs and hopefully the
immigration uncertainty is a little bit
lower and that allows a little bit of a
spending and hiring you know kind of
upside we'll see obviously you know if
you look at you know earnings were were
pretty decent if you look at going into
the the earning season consensus was
like mid- teens mag 7 earnings growth we
got mid20s you know consensus is at
about 2 and a.5% you know S&P 493
earnings growth we got like 8%. So there
there is, you know, an earnings story
there. Earnings guidance was very
positive. You know, 40% of companies
guided positive. So if you if you're
willing to squint and and, you know,
take a leap of faith here, there are
some positive trends on on the corporate
side of thing. And to me, that is that
is the big bull case. You get a little
bit what you got last summer, which is a
three-month slowdown followed by a
six-month rebound.
>> A lot of business owners are thinking
about that sneaky bull case. And I was
speaking to one yesterday who was saying
that actually if there's a 50 basis
point rate cut or two 25 basis point
rate cuts that could be enough to really
start to unleash some of this activity.
What do you think would be required in
terms of the landscape for that sneaky
bullcase to come to fruition?
>> I honestly I think almost like a base
case on the economy might be a bullcase
for corporate America. I.e. we're
slowing down but not going into
recession. you get a couple quote
unquote insurance cuts behind that and
inflation is sort of sideways. I think
if you got all of that together,
corporate America is going to say,
"Okay, I have a little more policy
uncertainty. I'm not in a recessionary
economy and they were willing to give me
50 basis points of custody end and and
maybe that makes me more confident to do
my investing." If you look at the small
business surveys, optimism spiked after
the election and then uncertainty spiked
after the election and both of them kind
of got to near 50 highs, call it. So
you're in a situation where businesses
wanted to be optimistic but they were
super uncertain about the outlook. If
you what's going to win, I guess is the
question there, right? And if you get
uncertainty down, the optimism wins. If
uncertainty stays where it is, that's
pro, excuse me, probably going to win
out. So a little bit of a balancing act
there between I'm excited, but I'm
scared.
>> What you describe sounds a lot like what
we saw play out last year. Had a labor
market head fake through the summer. Fed
comes out, gets nervous, drops rates 100
basis points. The question this time is
whether this is really a labor market
head fake or the real deal because the
data that keeps coming in keeps
supporting that it might be the real
deal.
>> It's frustrating to tread water for 3
years and that's sort of what people
have been saying for a long time. Wait
for the breakout and ultimately the
breakout hasn't happened economically.
It has happened from a stock market
perspective and this is just adding to
the tension that people feel is sort of
this pent-up demand to be optimistic
because we're Americans. But on the flip
side, this question of uncertainty that
just dampens it down and that treading
water, it's exhausting.
>> There has been a cyclical tilt to this
equity market in the last month or so.
This market is positioning for a pick up
in economic growth. We're waiting for
confirmation. Will we get it this coming
Friday?
>> And will 25 or 50 basis point of rate
cuts give that sort of animal spirits to
that uh cyclical aspect of the market.
That ultimately is what a lot of people
are betting.
>> I'm long the economy. I hope you're
right. Stuart, it's good to see you.
>> Stuart Kaiser of City. Thank you, sir.
Equities doing nicely, up about 2 ten of
1% on the S&P 500. With an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief, here's Yahara Arnard. Hey yara.
>> Hi, John. Tech industry leaders are
heading to the White House today. CEOs
from Meta, Apple, Microsoft, Google, and
more are all expected to attend an AI
event hosted by First Lady Melania
Trump. It will be followed by an evening
reception with President Trump in the
newly renovated Rose Garden, which you
can see there. Meanwhile, Salesforce
shares are falling more than 6% in the
pre-market after the software company
issued weak revenue guidance, suggesting
its AI product isn't yet paying off as
quickly as hoped. But CEO Mark Beni off
remaining optimistic, telling analysts
on the call, "This is just the beginning
of the most transformative time in our
industry." And sticking with tech, Apple
is gearing up to launch its own AI
powered search tool next year as it
tries to compete with Open AI. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg it will be
built right into Siri and eventually its
Safari web browser and some of the
underlying technology could even come
from Google. Apple is targeting a spring
release, part of its long awaited Siri
overhaul. That's your Lubric brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. The name's
questionable, isn't it? What do you make
of that?
>> World's Knowledge Answers. M
>> it's like uh worldwide web. I'm one of
the kids. Look at me.
>> I'm guessing that's just an internal
name for it, right?
>> I hope it is because right now it's
being blasted. I'm sorry it doesn't roll
off the tongue. Sure.
>> WKA. Yeah,
>> it's not cool.
>> We'll come back to that later in the
program.
>> Maybe.
>> Up next on the show, Trump's Fed pick
facing a grilling on Capitol Hill. he
would like to see uh Steven, who I I've
known for a long time, get on there as
soon as possible by uh putting Steven
Meyer in. That gives us more time.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with David Wilcox of the Peterson
Institute live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
snapping a two-day slide on the S&P 500
in yesterday's session this morning,
adding some weight to a bounce back, up
a quarter of 1% on the S&P, up a third
on the NASDAQ 100. Under surface this
morning, Trump's Fed pick facing a
grilling on Capitol Hill. The president
uh has great sway with leader Thun.
Leader Thoon's been a great partner
during the tax deal and I think that he
would like to see uh Steven who I I've
known for a long time get on there as
soon as possible by uh putting Steven
in. That gives us more time and again I
want to cast a wide net. The president's
very open-minded.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
Senate holding an accelerated
confirmation hearing this morning on
Steven Myron's appointment to Federal
Reserve Governor. Myron sang in prepared
remarks that he intends to preserve the
independence of the institution. Joining
us now in Washington DC is Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall. Good. Good. Good. Good.
Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good
morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, you said
it there. We're expecting Steven Myron's
nomination to proceed on perhaps an
expedited schedule with this first step
today, his hearing in front of the
Senate Banking Committee. And while the
spotlight will be on Myron, this is also
giving us a rare glimpse into how Senate
Republicans are balancing their past
calls for Fed independence with their
current support of President Trump and
what many of them have said is his right
to voice his opinion when it comes to
monetary policy. Now, Steven Myron is
going to have to make a credible case to
lawmakers that he's the man for the job.
And we sort of got some insights into
how he's going to frame his messaging.
in prepared remarks that he's expected
to read at the top of the hearing. He
says that he will preserve the Fed's
independence. You read one of the quotes
there, but I'll highlight another. He
said that independent monetary policy is
critical for its success. But the thing
is, Myin has previously called for
greater presidential control when it
comes to monetary policy. in a paper
written last uh year. I know he spoke
about it at the top of the show. He
advocated for some perhaps more
controversial changes, including
shortening the terms of Federal Reserve
governors and also subjecting the
central bank to the congressional budget
appropriations process, something that
just isn't done. Now, for context here,
Myron was confirmed to his current post
in a 53 to 46 vote earlier this year.
That means that four Republicans would
have to vote against him in order to
sink his nomination. And at this point,
that doesn't seem likely. And Democrats
can see to us privately that they
realize that there's not a lot of
procedural moves that they can take that
would delay this vote until after that
September meeting. Now, John, I did
catch up with a senior Democratic aid to
Senate banking leadership yesterday. And
they pointed out that there are other
nominees that are going to be at this
hearing, but they told me to expect
every Democratic member to gear their
questions towards Merin exclusively.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. More from
Tyler in the next hour. Tyler, thank
you. Joining us now to extend the
conversation, David Wilcox, the senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics. David, welcome
to the program, sir. If you had the
opportunity, if you're in that room
today, what would be your first question
for Steven Myron?
My first question would be, gee, it's
interesting that you're marketing
yourself as an advocate of Federal
Reserve independence, given, as Tyler
just mentioned, that your paper is chock
full of ideas for how to undo the guard
rails that currently protect the Fed
from day-to-day political fray.
>> There's also, David, in that paper some
ideas from Steve Meyer and Dan Katz that
would actually make the Fed potentially,
some would argue, more independent. this
idea of shortcircuiting what he calls
the revolving door between the Fed and
the executive branch which we've seen
under Democratic administrations like
the Biden administration when it comes
to uh Janet Yellen and La Brainard. So
can't you make the argument that
actually he has ideas that do fortify
Fed independence as well?
>> I think that's a tough argument to make.
Uh the reason why is because he would
make not only board members in DC but
also reserve bank presidents scattered
around the country subject to being
fired at will by the president of the
United States. and he and his uh
co-author Dan Katz go so far as to admit
that the likelihood is that uh when a
new president came into office, they
would probably clean house and start
with a full new slate of Federal Reserve
policy leaders. That would introduce an
element of discontinuity into monetary
policy that we just haven't seen. The
tradition at the Fed has been much more
for continuity, nonpartisan
uh analysis of monetary policy and the
longer term economic interest of the
country.
>> Since many think he's going to be
confirmed given the fact that he was
confirmed on party line votes just
months ago, what are you going to be
looking out for today when it comes to
this hearing?
Well, I'll be interested to hear what he
has to say about whether he stands by
these institutional changes that he
would make to the Federal Reserve. He
won't have a lot of leverage in that
regard because that would take an act of
Congress. I'll also be interested to
hear how he will balance uh the uh dual
concerns of the Federal Reserve. On the
one hand, maximum employment and on the
other price stability. Another area for
inquiry, it seems to me, with senators
is Myron's repeated statements that
there's no evidence of any pass through
whatsoever of tariffs into consumer
prices. That's got to strike uh the ears
of senators as a little peculiar. I'm
sure they're hearing from constituents
that selected imported items are
experiencing marked price increases. Do
you think David that it matters if
Steven Myin is confirmed considering
that he's only going to be there for a
couple of months and he's only one
voice?
>> He's a placeholder. Uh it will be an
important voice. It'll be a bellweather
of where the administration stands. It
takes President Trump one step closer
though to having a a tipping point in
terms of control over the Federal
Reserve governance structure as a whole.
With four members of the Federal Reserve
Board, he will be able to, if all four
are willing participants, he'll be able
to radically change the decision-making
of the Federal Reserve. Myron would be
number three. But uh this is why the
struggle over Lisa Cook is so hugely
consequential because it President Trump
can succeed in ousting Cook. That would
be number four. And I should mention, by
the way, yes, I am affiliated with the
Peterson Institute, but I'm also a
colleague of yours at Bloomberg
Economics.
>> Thank you, David, for that. I honestly
I'm wondering if we're looking at this
the wrong way. If you take a step back,
I wonder if the independence of the
Federal Reserve has been inherently
compromised by how much debt the United
States has incurred and the fact that
the Federal Reserve sets interest rates
at a time where the immaturity profile
of that debt is getting increasingly
short-term. In other words, they have
more control over how much interest the
United States pays. Isn't that
inherently going to be political going
forward regardless of who is the
president?
>> I don't buy it. Uh what we learned from
Paul Vulkar in the 1970s and early 1980s
is that a determined focused central
bank can exercise the tools of monetary
policy operating in the environment that
it uh finds itself in. Uh Vulkar was
dealt a very difficult hand. He came in
in a time of raging inflation, huge oil
price shocks. his predecessor by two uh
Arthur Burns had pleaded he was
powerless. He couldn't change the
situation. Vulker came in determined to
prove Burns wrong and that's exactly
what he did. It seems to me that uh this
current situation with a lot of debt
with fiscal policy undeniably on an
unsustainable trajectory is somewhat
similar that complicates the environment
for the Federal Reserve. it doesn't
absolve them of their responsibilities
to deliver good inflation uh performance
and maximum employment.
>> David, appreciate your time as always
and hopefully we can follow up after
this hearing. David Walcott's there of
the Peterson Institute and of course of
Bloomberg Economics. Have we seen
evidence of a deankering of inflation
expectations? I would keep going back to
that. Yes, there are reasons to be
concerned. Absolutely. But has any of
this contributed to a deanchoring of
inflation expectations?
>> So far, no. And you could say that based
on break even rates. You can also say
that on the fact that inflation
expectations over the longer term have
actually come in over the past 6 months.
However, there are increasing number of
analysts saying that this is an
increasing risk and that's the reason
why Goldman Sachs sees gold potentially
going to almost $5,000 by the middle of
next year if there is a real deankering
of that. So, it's still a threat, but
it's not getting priced in in any
meaningful way. not understate the risk
here whatsoever, but I think just taking
the temperature of things right now in
markets, things aren't boiling over in
quite the same way as they are in the
world of economics.
>> And a lot of the belief here is that the
markets will act as the ultimate check.
They're the adults in the room. And
essentially, if there is a nominee who
is going to act in a way that would on
more inflation expectations, you'd see
that response and then there'd be a
response to the response and that's I
think what a lot of people are betting
on.
>> We'll get to that gold call in just a
moment from Goldman Sachs. Coming up on
the program, we'll also speak to Brooke
Roach of Goldman Sachs from the Goldman
annual retailing conference on the state
of the consumer. Plus, Danny Burgerer
with your morning movers with Hulip
Packard shares rising on earnings and
revenue beats.
[Music]
The bounce continues positive by 0.16%
on the S&P 500 after snapping a two-day
slide in yesterday's session. Up again
on the Nasdaq by 0.24.
In the bond market, 2-year, 10year, and
30year. 2-year bond yields near the lows
of the year. Down two basis points this
morning at 35960.
In yesterday's session, a doubledigit
range on a 30-year bond yield getting
close to 5% then backing away 487.45 45
this morning down another two basis
points and Lisa you said it the tension
eased off the back of weaker than
expected data in yesterday's session
>> we saw bond yields swing in a range that
we haven't seen since the payrolls
report in the beginning of August just
on the heels of the job openings report
and yes job openings fell to the lowest
pace going back to September of 2024 but
it highlights how attenuated this market
is to any kind of weakness that would
unleash that type of Fed easing that
people are expecting
>> things settling down so this morning in
the bond market. Let's turn to gold.
Bremo mentioned it. 7-day move on gold
coming into Thursday. Longest winning
streak of the year so far. Just a little
bit softer this morning, but still up on
the year by about 35%. Goldman Sachs
talking up the possibility of 5K on gold
next year with this simple line from
Samantha Da Goldman. Gold is a store of
value that doesn't rely on institutional
trust. and they are saying that it could
reach almost $5,000 by the middle of
next year if just 1% of current
privatelyowned US Treasury holdings were
to migrate away from that asset class
and into gold. A lot of people
considering this as you see central
banks around the world increasingly
doing exactly that. It's fair to
remember before you say, "Wow, they
really have something to sell." It's
fair to remember that gold has doubled
in price since the end of 2022. Doubled.
More than doubled. So, it gives you a
sense of how much scope there was to run
and maybe what's to come.
>> And a move continued through 2025 so
far. Just a little bit lighter, softer
this morning. We're down by 0.5%. With
three hours to go until the opening
bell, let's get you some morning movers.
Let's cross over to Danny for more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. Some tech earnings after the
bell yesterday to get through. Let's
start with the good and that was HPE,
Hula Packard, Enterprise reporting
earnings that beat on most metrics, but
the real concern for them had been
margins considering that they were
thinning out. But HPE the CEO coming out
and saying with AIdriven demand we are
weathering the margin slim down. We're
going to go from something like 6.4% to
10%. Meanwhile some of the more ugly
tech earnings among them Salesforce
those shares down 6.6% in the pre-market
this morning. The company giving a
lackluster outlook for growth. The
concern for them is that they haven't
had as many customers take up their AI
products as had been hope or the more
emerging AI market players being the
ones that are upsetting them. Can they
really capture that audience? Meanwhile,
we also had earnings from Figma, their
first set of earnings since going
public. Shares down a whopping 14.5%.
Let's just remember where the bar is.
This is a company, a software design
company that's doubled since its IPO.
So, investors were expecting a lot. It
gave a forecast that was in line for
expectations. This is what inline gets
you a big decline. John
>> Danny, thank you. Down almost 15%. You
want a big mover? American Eagle in the
pre-market. What a move. Up by 24% in
early trading.
>> Thank you, Sydney Sweeney. Evidently,
that really had some legs and uh they
saw their shares skyrocket. They had
better than expected earnings and it
seems like no controversy is bad
controversy when it comes to retailers.
>> The timing with Travis Councy as well.
>> Oh yes,
>> I timed that perfectly. Oh, you a
coincidence. Conspiracy theorist. What a
coincidence. Is that right? Would you
like to share your thoughts?
>> Absolutely not.
>> All right, then let's move on.
>> Stock is up in the premarket by 24%. On
our radar this morning, President Donald
Trump asking the Supreme Court to uphold
his global tariffs after an appeals
court found them illegal. Trump asking
the court to take up the case on a
highly expedited schedule with arguments
by early November.
>> So, if you look at this submission to
the Supreme Court, basically the
administration is saying it's too big to
unwind. It's too important to unwind.
They say it eviscerates a critical tool
for addressing these emergencies for
these negotiations with trading
partners. And this is what was
interesting. The Treasury Secretary in
this ruling in this submission from the
to the Supreme Court is talking about
how it's already impacting ongoing
negotiations. Quote, "World leaders are
questioning the president's authority to
impose tariffs, walking away from or
delaying negotiations, and are imposing
a different calculus to the negotiating
positions." So at this moment, even
though the market is waiting for a final
decision, what you're hearing from the
administration and that is that it's
adversely affecting their negotiating
process with all of these countries,
namely like India, that are still trying
to get to a trade deal.
>> I want to know about the money, how much
money they're counting on to come in
from the tariffs, what it means for them
to have to give back tens of billions of
dollars. That's what I want to hear in
these discussions.
>> Tens, try hundreds of billions,
>> hundreds of billions of dollars. I mean,
they CBO estimates that there's going to
be $3.3 trillion of tariff related
revenues. uh from 2025 to 2035 if and
this is a pretty big if they say on at
the current rates
>> and can you imagine unwinding all of
that money. Also interesting to note
when it looks at what is going on in
terms of if you have to unwind it
estimates from the tax foundation said
tariffs are at risk in the case to
account for about 70% of projected
tariff revenue in 2026. So what does
this mean for those individuals who are
actually looking at tariffs as good in
terms of bringing down these deficit
concerns? All of that can be unwound at
the Supreme Court.
>> That's an ongoing story in the nation's
capital. This is going to be front and
center later this morning. President
Trump's pick for Fed Governor Steven
Myron heading to Capitol Hill for his
confirmation hearing later on. Myron
Sangi intends to preserve the
independence of the Federal Reserve.
Elsewhere, a congressional stock trading
ban gaining momentum after a bipartisan
group of House lawmakers agreed on a new
bill. The bill's supporters spanning the
political spectrum from Chip Roy of
Texas to Alexandra Accassiocortez of New
York. Can we finally make this happen?
>> I think it's going to happen. The issue,
of course, is that you have to have
leadership put on the floor for a vote.
You have individuals like Congresswoman
Anna Paulina Luna saying, "I'm going to
force a vote on this measure if the GOP
leadership does not put it to the
floor." We should note this is for
senators. This is for congressmen and
women. This does not go to the executive
branch, which a lot of people are
speculating this is because the
president wouldn't want to sign
something that goes to the executive
branch. But Jonathan, everyone is going
to point to what is going on with some
of these Congress people. How many
examples do we need to have to see that
do you see individuals in Congress
taking advantage of what is going on
that they have what some would call
inside information and then executing?
>> So much doubt. Maybe they're just
phenomenal traders. I said a few times.
Perhaps perhaps Nancy Pelosi is just a
phenomenal trader
>> and her husband too. I think
>> phenomenal.
>> I think Marjorie Taylor Green Marjorie
Taylor Green as well. you're going to
go.
>> People have got their doubts about that.
>> Yeah, they can go to, you know, Wall
Street.
>> That's the latest on Washington DC.
Let's turn to the economy and to
retailers. Macy's surging 20% in
Wednesday's trading following an upbeat
forecast on the consumer. The retail
team at Goldman Sachs writing, quote,
"While there continues to be concerns
around spending behavior, we remain
cautiously optimistic going into 2026."
Joining us now from the Goldman Sachs
Global Retailing Conference is Goldman's
lead apparel analyst, Brook Roach.
Brooke, welcome to the program. Let's
just talk about this. So the retailers
are talking up a better story. The
economic data is not so great at the
moment. What's the call from you and the
team?
>> Good morning and thank you. It's it's
well it's great to be with you this
morning from the Goldman Sachs Global
Retailing Conference. This is our 32nd
annual conference and we're with nearly
80 companies uh talking about strategy
and what's happening in the state of
retail. Bottom line is that the consumer
remains resilient.
This is what we're hearing from a lot of
different uh companies and yesterday I
was there and I was speaking with one uh
CEO who said it's sort of like a flat
surface, a hard surface under the hood.
There's a lot going on and a lot of
molecules that are kind of battling each
other, but it all comes together to kind
of a flat surface. What are people
looking at that could potentially break
it to the upside? This sort of uh
stealthy bull case that we keep hearing
about.
>> That's a very good question. I think
overall as we put together all of the
various inputs of what might be driving
consumer discretionary demand on a go
forward basis, we see a better outlook
into 2026 with discretionary cash flow
modestly stronger across across income
quentiles and with some real
opportunities for consumers to engage
with great product and great retailers.
What we're seeing overall is that trends
have been better throughout the back to
school season and this strong back to
school season start is real is much
better than expected and I think there
is a view from many retailers that there
is some cautious optimism that hopefully
this will continue but I think retailers
are very cognizant that there is a
tougher comp ahead and that there is
some uncertainty on what the pricing
backdrop might mean and what that might
mean for consumer engagement from a
demand perspective. The good news is
that we haven't yet seen price
elasticity of demand and back to school
has been strong. So what could break it?
I think there's a lot of questions on
what could be the case for uh consumers
in terms of their mood or what might be
happening, but we believe that the
outlook is fairly robust.
>> What you just said there is actually
really important. The idea that a lot of
these retailers are increasing prices
and people are still buying. In other
words, they still have the power to
increase prices and it's not destructing
demand. And you're seeing that pretty
much across the board. They're able to
raise prices in select ways. Do they
have a sense of whether this is coming
from wealthy individuals, whether this
is coming particularly from more luxury
sectors, or whether this is across the
board through all the tiers of different
income levels?
>> I think at this point retailers are
trying to do their best to protect the
consumer and to protect their
businesses, but they are seeing some
cost increases overall. At this
juncture, we've only seen modest price
increases across the board based on what
retailers are telling us, but there is
some question about what that price
might look like into the back half of
the year. As we think about that in um
the change so far, given that it has
been modest and it hasn't been
broad-based across the board, as far as
what retailers are saying right now,
consumers have been able to absorb these
price increases. They do have higher
discretionary cash flow in their uh they
do have a stronger wallet right now and
so far it does appear that many
retailers are looking to try to do it in
a way that won't hurt the consumer
whether that is a mix shift into
different types of products or
categories or otherwise.
>> Brooke before you go can we lend some
thought to the idea that maybe the
seauite I think is struggling with this
cultural moment in America as well. I'd
love your thoughts on this and what
you're hearing from management teams.
I'm thinking more recently of Cracker
Barrel almost blowing itself up.
American Eagle leaning into controversy
and it benefits them. The stock is up
nice in the pre-market so far this
morning. What's your understanding of
how the seauite is wrestling with this
moment?
>> You know, I don't know about your uh
specific examples that you gave, but
what I would say is that retailers are
focused on engaging with their core
consumer. They're investing more in
marketing. They're looking to try and
create better products that will drive
strong consumer demand regardless of
what the macro backdrop looks like. And
we're seeing more and more retailers
lean into that. And we heard that a lot
yesterday with various comments about
marketing, consumer engagement, and
great new product.
>> Brook Roach of Goldman Sachs. Brooke,
appreciate it. Thank you. Two well-known
examples in the last few weeks. Yeah.
And actually uh some of the corporate
executives at that conference were
talking about things like the more
androgynous look is now moving to the
very gendered look of boy sections and
girl sections and how that's that's a
very different kind of trend than it was
say 2 years ago. And that's one way to
sort of revive some of the brands. So
you're definitely hearing a sort of
change in tone as there is a recognition
of some of this.
>> Also they're moving into Americana.
They're trying to make that cool again.
I thought this stat from American Eagle
was insane. The company chief marketing
officer said they gained new shoppers in
quote every single county in the United
States. American Eagle was not that cool
6 months ago. It is very cool right now
if you have a teenager or tween in your
household.
>> You're catching up with Gap Boss a
little bit later this morning, right?
>> Yeah. Richard Dixon.
>> Yeah, I'll ask him about that exactly
what he's seeing with that. But I also
am curious about how they're managing
some of the uncertainty and what it
would take for them to unleash some of
the animal spirits. One thing that you
can see in some of the data is that
sales have only increased in the actual
numbers because of inflation. Otherwise,
they've been kind of flat. How do you
turn it around? How do you get that cool
factor at a time where margins
potentially are really cramped?
>> Such an interesting moment for this
sector. We'll catch up with Richard
Dixon, the GAP CEO. 10:30 Eastern time.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahira. Hey,
Yahira. Hi, John. Kico Phillips has
announced plans to cut 20 to 25% of its
roughly 13,000 strong workforce. The
majority of the reductions will occur
this year and will include employees and
contractors. According to Reuters, Kico
Phillips will hold a town hall meeting
today. Meanwhile, Newsmax is suing Fox
News for allegedly maintaining an a
monopoly for US right-leaning pay TV
news. Newsmax says Fox coerces
distributors to unfair terms that
prevent them from carrying its
competitors. In response to the lawsuit,
a Fox spokesperson said Newsmax cannot
sue their way out of their own quote
competitive failures.
And Deepseek is developing an AI model
with more advanced features to compete
with Open AI. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the model is designed to carry
out multi-step actions on a person's
behalf with minimal direction. Deep
Seek's founder is pushing to unveil the
model in the final quarter of this year.
That's Bloomberg John
>> want to watch that. Yhara, thank you.
More from Yahara in the next hour. Up
next on the program, traders hedging
their bets.
>> Uncertainty continues to rule the day.
uh kind of the range of volatility on
the bond side at least has consolidated
much less than where we were. We're just
hedging our bets.
>> A conversation I'm next with Mike Pal of
Black Rockck live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Later on this morning, we don't usually
talk about this. The ADP report teasing
and promoting the ADP report. The
estimate in our survey 68K.
That's a downshift from the previous
month of 104. And investors seemingly
putting additional weight on this print
later this morning. Well, if there's a
little bit of a shine away from the gold
standard, which is the Bureau of Labor
Statistics report that comes out
tomorrow, well, where are you going to
turn? And that is ADP. And suddenly
they're looking pretty pretty
>> going into that. Equity futures positive
by 0.2% on the S&P 500 on the NASDAQ up
by 0.3.
Out of Savannah this morning, traders
hedging their bets.
>> Bond investors are a little concerned
about putting on too much of a steepener
trade. We're just hedging our bets, you
know, as with everything. uh uncertainty
continues to rule the day. Uh kind of
the range of volatility on the bond side
at least has consolidated much less than
where we were a year ago, two years ago,
six months ago. So here's the latest
this morning. Some investors hedging
their bets on treasuries ahead of a
string of labor market data this week.
Mike Par, the deputy head of Black
Rockck's Portfolio Management Group,
writing the following. The loss of
long-term macro anchors that have
underpinned long-term asset allocation
defines this new regime. Macro risk
matters more. Now, Mike joins us now for
more. Mike, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> It's good to see you. Let's go through
this because I know you and the team
have given this a tremendous amount of
thought. What has changed? What is this
new regime? And what do we need to
manage now that we could ignore before?
>> Yeah. So, I'd say, you know,
historically, what's mattered most of
all? It's the growth impulse. It's the
inflation impulse. It's a predictable
policy framework around monetary and
fiscal policy. You know, a lot of those
kind of core steady attributes of the
macro environment are in historic
uncertainty and what's come in their
place. Well, geopolitical uncertainty,
trade uncertainty, a massive technology
impulse that's really defining the
landscape. It means that macro matters
more than ever uh cannot be ignored and
at the same time macro forecasting is a
much different endeavor than it has been
over the past few decades.
>> So, what are you and the team advocating
for? What are you suggesting should be
the approach now versus what the
approach was in the last decade or so?
>> Yeah, Lisa, you were just talking about
the role of gold in portfolios and and
and how important that is. I think what
that highlights is investors are
searching for alternative forms of
diversification and that's what we're
really talking about as well. uh Black
Rockck published a piece just last week
about the role of hedge funds in
portfolios and that's really about the
same theme like how do we identify
alternative sources of diversification
in this new macro environment and I
think the thesis of that piece is you
know there are two ways of doing it but
you can't ignore macro in either case
one you've got to dial down the macro
risk in your portfolio and really seek
uncorrelated sources of return away from
the macro or two you need to embrace the
macro and really consciously manage that
and hedge funds provide the levers to do
that.
>> Is gold replacing treasuries as that
allocation?
>> Well, I think that that's a that's a
really great question and like I said, I
think the important thing is the theme
that investors are searching for
alternative forms of diversification.
Some are finding it through gold. I
think there are other ways as well and
like I said, we think uncorrelated hedge
fund strategies whether they're dialing
down macro risk or leaning into it,
that's the way of of finding that kind
of diversification. You know, earlier uh
in the show, Jean was saying that market
expectations for inflation have not
gotten unmed, and that has been sort of
one uh bedrock that a lot of people have
clung to to say that the Fed's
independence has not yet been fully
compromised. What do you make of that?
Do you think that this market is overly
complacent about the risk of inflation
really picking up or being increasingly
volatile on the heels of a Fed that is
facing a much more politically difficult
moment given the fiscal deficit and
given the fact that more of it's going
to be in the short term of the uh of the
maturity profile?
>> So I'd say a couple things. I think one
I think there's some encouraging news in
the inflation data itself. So I think to
your point looking out over the long
term those expectations have remained
well anchored. I think you know was
reading some work that Jason Ferman did
at the end of last week and talking
about the ways if you look at core PCE
and look at the kind of market-based
prices in in that index you see some
pretty encouraging trends there and in
particular once you strip away the
tariffs things look sort of relatively
uh positives. Um, you know, I think to
your point, you know, we've heard from
the Treasury Secretary, central bank
independence matters. It's precious. It
needs to be preserved. I think that's
something that we at BlackRock believe
as well. I think one of the things we
would say is when you look at the risks
around a rising term premium, the fiscal
picture, risks around sticky inflation,
but also the need to preserve central
bank credibility are all things that
need to be managed if we're going to
hold term premiums to a reasonable place
and hold yields in that reasonable place
as well. Mike, when it comes to macro
risk and geopolitical risk, you're
almost a perfect individual to have
insight both Wall Street and Washington.
I'd love to get your sense on how you're
viewing some of these trade negotiations
that the administration hasn't gotten to
a finish line, notably India, because
you spent a ton of time there.
>> So, you know, I think the administration
with respect to um some of these issues
faces tough trade-offs. So, on one hand,
clearly they have been looking to
increase pressure on Russia. one the
most important way of doing that is
increasing pressure on Russian energy
exports. On the other hand, you know,
it's been a bipartisan priority for 25
plus years to enhance the US India
relationship. And I think, you know,
balancing those two things has proven to
be a challenging kind of path to
navigate. I'd say what I worry about is
that we're landing in a place
potentially where we're not getting
meaningful more meaningfully more
pressure on Russia, but we are seeing a
deterioration in the US India
relationship and a deterioration that is
increasingly having impacts on US firms
that have pursued China plus1 type
strategies and now see that under
pressure.
>> Yeah, Apple being one of them. Uh that's
for sure. Who find themsel in India now
with a production base with some
exemptions. We've talked about this a
million times. This is the problem I
think for corporate America right now.
They don't know how to price this
moment. I'm not sure investors do
either. You talk about tough trade-offs.
Lisa touched on an important question. I
just want to pin you down on it. When
you talk about things like hedge funds
and maybe increasing allocations to
alternatives, how are you funding that?
What are you telling people to do?
>> Yeah. So I think exactly to the point
around upward pressure on term premiums,
I think our view is government bonds are
going to have a less uh important role
to play in portfolios as diversifiers
looking ahead. And so diversification
alternatives like hedge funds like gold
have to get a hard look from investors.
But it's really that fixed income
allocation that I think has got to be
the the point of focus. What would you
have to see when it comes to the Steven
Myron hearings or anything that would
happen on the Federal Reserve that would
make you say actually now is a time for
you have to shed US treasuries or US
government debt that much faster and
move to these alternatives that that
term premium has to go that much greater
to that much greater of a degree.
>> So I wouldn't want to speculate on kind
of future conditions. I think the fact
is investors need to make decisions now
and I think our view is you know there
is going to be likely upward pressure on
term premia for here from here for all
the reasons uh I cited that means that
government bonds whether in the US or
frankly elsewhere in the world globally
are going to be less effective
diversifiers and the need to navigate
that risk navigate macro risk by
alternative sources of diversification
is a here and now issue not a two years
from now issue
>> Mike Pal of Black Rockck really
thoughtful stuff. Appreciate your time,
buddy. It's good to see you.
>> It's good to see you.
>> Thank you. Talking about a new risk, a
different regime, and for that reason,
you need a different diversifier, and
bonds don't get it done anymore. And we
could talk about the political
consequences over time, but certainly,
you're seeing them right now in Europe
and elsewhere.
>> If you put this equation together, it's
that people don't want to invest in
government bonds in quite the same way,
and they're taking money out. So that 1%
withdrawal that Goldman Sachs was
talking about from say publicly owned US
government debts might be happening in a
very real sense. It might not all be
going to gold. It might be going to
other asset classes. But this is
something clearly a lot of investors are
thinking.
>> There's an obvious feedback loop here
from policy makers, a more hectic
environment into the markets and from
the markets back out again. You've got
to make some tough decisions if you're a
fiscal authority at the moment on how
you're going to counter that if people
don't want to buy your bonds for those
reasons.
>> Yeah. Are they going to make those hard
decisions though? Because people don't
want them. They want their money. They
want their benefits. And that's part of
the problem that we see around the
world.
>> Up next on the program in the second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance, we'll
catch up with Barbara Dan of BDA
Capital, Monica Aguero of Morgan
Stanley, Jed Dorshimer of William Blair,
and the former New York Fed president,
Bill Dudley from New York. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
This is not a bond market which is not
functioning. It's a bond market that's
repricing.
>> I'm not overly concerned on this runup
uh in you.
>> The distribution of rate outcomes is
much greater to the downside than what
the market is currently pricing.
>> We have seen fiscal concerns pretty much
across the board.
>> That all reinforces at least a
steepening bias.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second down hour
of Bloomberg surveillance starts right
now and your scores look like this. Snap
at a two-day slide in yesterday's
session adding some weight to the rally
this morning. Up by 0.2% on the S&P 500
on the Nasdaq up by 0.24. In the bond
market, some stability thanks to some
weaker economic data. The 10-year sub
420s below 360 and 30s backing away from
5% 487 this morning. The data slate is
stacking up as follows for this morning.
Later on, 8:15 ADP 830 jobless claims
all building up to tomorrow and a
payroll report.
>> And there's a real question here about
what it shows for the economy at a time
when people are looking at this for a
Fed reaction function to how much
they're going to cut rates, right? It
has to kind of thread the needle. Be
weak but not too weak. be uh something
that shows a softening but not soft and
something that could give some impetus
to Fed Chair Powell to cut rates in a
significant way at the same time that
we're seeing a lot of noise down in
Washington DC about who the future uh
could be at the Federal Reserve.
>> A little bit of noise, turn up the
volume later on this morning. Steven
Merren down on Capitol Hill facing a
grilling as he looks to get a seat on
the FOMC put it this way. Right now
there is a credible argument to reduce
interest rates at the Federal Reserve.
Whether you agree or disagree, there is
a credible case to make. Could Steven
Murray make that case at 10 a.m. Eastern
time?
>> He's certainly going to try. I think a
better question going into the hearing
today is, is anyone going to ask? Well,
Republicans are going to ask, but
Democrats aren't. They're going to use
this hearing as a referendum on Fed
independence and really try to get
Steven Mein to potentially go against
maybe even what the president of the
United States has said when it comes to
Fed independence. But his confirmation
is in no way in doubt. The issue I think
that the White House is facing is can
they get him in the chair before
September 16th. That is going to be
incredibly challenging. I'm going to say
something and I'm going to hear you both
groan. Okay. But when we talk about Fed
independence, what does independence
mean? Okay. I know that's the ultimate
sort of Lisa thing to say. However,
ultimately that is a real question at a
time where the US deficit is increasing
dramatically and this Treasury
Department is going to issue an
increasing amount of it at the front end
of the yield curve. In other words,
short-term rates, which is what the Fed
has some control over. So, you can
imagine that regardless of who is the
president going forward just by virtue
of this profile, you have a more highly
politicized Federal Reserve. And this
really is the crux of the question that
the markets are grappling with. What
does that mean for inflation and for
some of the changing metrics, the
targets for the central bank?
>> I don't think anything you saying is
controversial whatsoever. So, no groans
from me.
>> Yay. Going into next year, I think we
have to shed the traditional way of
looking at the central bank and get away
from the chairman power world and start
thinking about the future and how this
institution will be managed and not just
interest rates but also the balance
sheet. It's got to be something we give
more thought to in the coming months.
>> And I think the market's trying to give
this thought and right now long-term
bonds are flirting with this idea of a
regime change but not necessarily buying
into it because you still are seeing
inflation expectations mored and you
aren't seeing runaway yields. But that
is the ultimate check. How does the
market respond to what this looks like
in the coming year?
>> This morning, we're down two basis
points, 30s at 488. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Barbara Duran of BDA
Capital as tech stocks rally ahead of
jobs data throughout this week. Monica
Aguero of Morgan Stanley as President
Trump takes his tariff fight to the
Supreme Court and former New York Fed
President Bill Dudley as Trump's Fed pig
faces a confirmation hearing. We begin
this hour with stock steady as investors
await key job market data. Barbara Duran
of BDA Capital writing, "Job numbers
will likely be on the low side and the
jolts numbers indicate a continuing
gradual calling in the labor market."
Barbara joins us now for more. Barbara,
good morning.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> It's good to see you. Last time we
caught up with you about a month ago,
you talked about a market ripe for a
pullback. Now, the data has pulled back,
the market hasn't. How do those two
things stack up? Yeah. Well, I think
what's happened in the meantime is the
Fed Jackson Hole, you know, where for
the first time, you know, pal really
gave a very different message, which is
that instead of just watching both
inflation and jobs in terms of equality
of of interest there, it's now more
concerned about jobs. And that was
because the revised data, as we know,
averaged 35,000 jobs a month for the
three months, May, June, July. And so
that was a significant difference. And I
think that's, you know, it raises a big
red flag, you know, for the Fed to
think, hey, maybe we really have to
focus more on that right now. Inflation,
still expect the tariff impacts to feed
through. That's been a lot slower than
people expected, but it looks like now
the job concerns are a little bit more
ascended in their concerns than
inflation.
>> So, would you push back against the
cyclical tilt that emerged through
August into September? I would a little
bit, you know, because the concerns what
we're seeing and and of course we have
jobless claims this morning which I'd be
surprised if they were anything less
than stable because that's been what's
been happening and tomorrow of course
the non-form payroll report which I
think estimates are 75,000 and again
it'd be hard to see that being even
higher you know. So we we will see what
happens there but you know I think it's
going to be steady state
>> at this point. How can you bet against a
market though that's being driven up by
something completely independent from
the economy which is artificial
intelligence and all the promised
efficiency gains and cost benefits that
companies are touting?
>> Well, I think that's an important part
of it because that ties into the
earnings story which of course is what
drives stocks. And if you saw the second
quarter expectations had dramat been
dramatically lowered after the first
quarter which was some 13% and it was
coming in at expectations of just under
5% well came in at about 12%. And if you
look at the consensus estimates for next
year fiscal in the uh calendar year 26,
you're looking at 13 14% earnings
growth. And that is still what's going
to drive and a big part of that is the
AI play. But of course, it's been the
expectation that in two weeks the Fed
will cut rates. And I think the the
probability the CME is now 97 plus
percent that the Fed will cut rates. And
certainly if you look to October, it's
only about 50% there'll be another 25
bips cut. So it looks like interest rate
cuts are coming.
>> Okay. So, this is the reason why there
is this feeling on Wall Street that it's
a good time to be bullish because
ultimately the Fed's going to have your
back one way or another. And it seems
like there is a new bias on the Federal
Reserve to run the economy just a touch
hot in order to preserve jobs and and
sort of uh keep things stable even at
the expense potentially of inflation
going higher. How much are you
incorporating that sort of shift in bias
into your investing view? Well, it's a
good question because you've seen the
rotation until yesterday. Um, the
typical rotation out of the big mega cap
tech stocks which are always going to be
vulnerable to profit taking when you
feel that you want to invest in other
areas. And so I think that's people are
looking you've seen the small caps have
a big run. In fact, in August you had
the biggest um outperformance
differential between the NASDAQ 100
which was I think about 1.3% versus 7
plus% for small cap. Now I personally
see that as a trade. I don't think
that's sustainable because again there
is uncertainty about the economy you
know job market um is slowing we haven't
seen the layoffs yet so people are still
employed you still got decent wage
growth and you still have some 40 50
trillion has been created since 19 in
household wealth so people are wealthy
not and not to say the lower income is
not being stressed because of the
tariffs the regressive tax impact
>> what would need to happen for you to
take that thought that this is a trade
and actually something more sustainable
>> well I think we'd have to see um the
economy holding up. I think the Fed
would have to to cut rates. We've got a
number of of data points coming up,
whether it's the CPI, PPI, um, jobs
reports. And if we maintain, you know, a
level of jobs and the economy, I mean,
you see all the GDP growth this year
probably will average one and a half%.
That's not huge. I mean, it's okay. It's
sustainable, but it doesn't it doesn't
indicate an economy that's going to take
off and and benefit cyclicals and small
cap.
>> When you look at the data coming up,
didn't Chairman Powell just give the
market a green light to look through
inflation data? Looks like it looks like
it but they're also being very careful
and I think there's still um and
certainly my view is that um we just
really got the final tariffs well we'll
see what happens with India and some
others um but in in August so there's a
lot tariff impacts that have not fed
through and we know that there's big
inventory building and companies without
knowing what the impacts are going to be
pushed it back on their supply chains.
They took some of the hit, but they're
going to now that they have some
clarity, they're going to start to
figure out we got to push, we got to
raise prices. That will happen, but it's
taking longer than everybody expected
because there's been such uncertainty on
the policy level. So, Fed is still very
aware of that and you certainly hear
this from Fed commentary, you know,
around the street. Some are saying we
still don't need to cut rates. So, we'll
see.
>> Stuart Kaiser Silly was on the program a
little bit earlier and Stuart's making
the case for a sneaky bull case. And a
sneaky bull case in his eyes is
ultimately that we get this
reaceleration. we get growth starting to
inflict higher as we turn the year, go
into year end and come out the other
side. What I hear from you though is
that that's not the sneaky bull case.
Actually, that's the base case and
that's what we're priced for, a
reaceleration in growth. Is that fair?
>> Actually, I think that is fair because
again, it's all about earnings and when
you saw it a lot of companies raised
their guidance and it wasn't just
because they had cut guidance, you know,
in the uncertain time period in April,
but it's really looking ahead and of
course companies are very cautious, you
know, and looking ahead um in terms of
their guidance. So you're seeing, you
know, pretty rosy picture. And again,
anything could happen. You could start
to see more layoffs, but it's been such
a gradual cooling. And of course, we
have to see the impact. I mean, they're
really stepping up the deportation. You
know, that is going to have an impact on
the lower level jobs if they at this
current rate of 3,000 a day. And it
looks like they want to hire more ICE
officers. That's probably in a year a
million workers taken out of the system.
And we'll see what impact that has.
>> So, if you're cautious, what are you
buying and what are you selling? Are you
selling stocks and buying bonds or does
that no longer work?
>> I am not buying bonds. Um, and I
continue to sell on a riskmanagement
viewpoint whereas things like Nvidia or
we're going to have Broadcom after the
close today, you know, and take and trim
profits there. I think there's been, you
know, some um international has been an
outperformer and I think that can
continue for various reasons depending
on the market, but that's al it's a
fiscal thing. It's also um what's
happening in terms of of their
economies. So, I think you can start to
go in that direction and I think you
continue to look at different AI plays
that are developing and will continue to
develop.
>> I think that's a pretty interesting
response. Bottom line, you're expecting
growth to disappoint, but ultimately
you're not buying bonds. Now, what is it
about bonds right now that don't provide
that diversifying characteristics that
typically they would provide in a
disappointing slowdown? Well, I think it
also depends on I really think stocks
are the way you create wealth and bonds
are really a placeholder and bonds even
with, you know, if you go out on the on
the curve or do high yield, you're still
not making a lot past inflation, you
know, and so you had a guest on earlier
talking about non-correlated assets and
that's a different direction one can go,
you know, where you can get higher
returns than bonds and they will be not
correlated. But bonds, I mean, you saw
the freight that happened earlier this
week and we saw this back in April where
suddenly, you know, because the tariffs
um that the tariff uh that may be rolled
back, okay, what happens to the fiscal
deficit? And so the bonds freak out the
long end, but then they settle down
because it's sort out there in the
future and the market really responds to
what's immediate and foreseeable in the
next say 12 to 18 months. So I think we
will periodically have these rights
concern about fiscal you know um our
fiscal situation but again that fades
and also because we're in a unique place
in the world in terms of our you know
the US dollar um we are the reserve
currency. So
>> Barbara it's good to see you thanks for
dropping by Barbara Dan there of BDA
Capital this morning bonds are doing
better yields are lower across the curve
by one or two basis points 30s down to
488 twos at 360 with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Yhara for
more. Hey Yhara.
>> Hi John. Manuel mentioned this one
earlier. American Eagle shares are
soaring 26% in the pre-market after the
retailer reported higher than expected
quarterly sales boosted by demand from
its Sydney Sweeney ad campaign. The
company's chief marketing officer said
that in just 6 weeks the com the
campaign has generated unprecedented new
customer acquisition with as an Marie
said new shoppers gained in every single
county in the US. Meanwhile, the effort
to ban individual stock trading by
lawmakers is gaining momentum. A
bipartisan group in the House introduced
a bill that would ban members of
Congress from owning and trading
individual stocks. The bipartisan
legislation comes on the heels of a
similar measure which advanced in the
Senate and is awaiting a floor vote. And
the Metropolitan Opera has reached a
deal with Saudi Arabia that will have
the company perform in the kingdom for 3
weeks each winter. The agreement, which
is expected to bring the Mets more than
$100 million, is expected to cover a
large portion of its financial needs
through at least 2032. The Met hopes
this will help it amid a period of acute
financial stress. Dester agree. John,
>> they can stop calling me now.
>> Always get phone calls from them.
>> You get calls from the Met.
>> The donations.
>> How often do you go to the opera?
>> I screen those calls now.
>> In October, you should come with me,
John.
>> What are you watching?
>> Andrea Belli is coming to town.
>> Okay, that sounds quite cool. I mean, to
be fair. All right.
>> So, they're gonna keep calling.
>> Keep calling.
>> Call him now. He's interested. Green
light.
>> It's all right. Let's move on. Up next,
Trump's tariff agenda on the line.
>> We have a very, very big case in the
Supreme Court. If we don't win that
case, uh, our country is going to suffer
so greatly. I think it's one of the most
important cases I've ever seen go before
the Supreme Court.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Monica of
Morgan Stanley from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Here's your day ahead.
It's stacking up as follows. Tons of
economic data later this morning, 8:30
Eastern time. Jobless claims before
that. Typically, we don't make a big
deal of ADP, but given what's been
happening with payrolls, more and more
people making a bigger deal of ADP. That
drops at 8:15 Eastern time. Then later
on, at the same time, we get the ISM,
which is worthy of a few looks. We also
get this one box office on Capitol Hill,
Steven Myron, and his confirmation
hearing of the nation's capital. So
expect a lot of questions about his idea
of Fed independence, especially given
that paper that he co-authored last year
talking about how maybe the way to give
the Fed a greater degree of credibility
is to give the president more authority
to fire at will. Uh a number of the
members, there are a lot of questions
here. A key question for me is how does
the market respond? How much is the
market paying attention to this? And
that to me is the reaction function that
might have the greatest meaning not only
for the market but also for Congress.
>> And unlike the economics profession
right now, this market's not losing its
mind. Some people might say it's being
compl complacent, but ultimately it's
not losing its mind
>> in part because they believe in that
check, right? That ultimate check of the
market, but also because you're not
seeing inflation expectations become
unmed. And in fact, a lot of the
inflation data, as we've been talking
about, have been coming in better than
expected.
>> Equity futures this morning doing better
than expected again, up by 0.2%. The
bounce back continues on the NASDAQ 100,
higher by 0.3 in the bond market. Bonds
are doing okay. We're stable here. The
yields are down by two basis points on
10 to about 420. Under surveillance this
morning, the president's tariff agenda
on the line.
>> We have a very very big case in the
Supreme Court. If we don't win that
case, uh our country is going to suffer
so greatly. I think we're going to have
uh a big victory. These deals are all
done. I guess we'd have to unwind them.
And I used them wisely and people
respect America again. And we've become
a rich country again. The money coming
in is incredible. I think it's one of
the most important cases I've ever seen
go before the Supreme Court.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president calling on the Supreme Court
to uphold his global tariffs. The
president seeking a highly expedited
schedule for the highstakes case.
Joining us now from Washington is
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Hey, Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. So, the White House is
asking the Supreme Court to hear
arguments starting in early November.
That would open the door for a decision
by the end of the year. though worth
pointing out that the court's term goes
until the middle of 2026. So that's by
no means a sure thing. But the White
House is certainly pushing its case,
saying that it's actually complicating
ongoing trade negotiations, and we know
that trillions of dollars are tied up in
the decision. Now, I mentioned this
earlier this week on the program, but I
was pretty struck by the Committee for
Responsible Federal Budget, which is
projecting that 71% of anticipated
tariff revenue would vanish if the
Supreme Court ultimately upholds this
decision. and our own analysts at
Bloomberg Economics are estimating that
the average US tariff rate would be cut
by more than half. Now, at issue here is
that this appeal covers two instances
where President Trump invoked IEPA, the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act to declare national emergencies and
then impose tariffs. the first the
so-called reciprocal tariffs where he
cited persistent global trade imbalances
and the second the tariffs against
Mexico, Canada and partly on China where
he cited concerns when it comes to the
border and fentanyl. So the two big
questions that the court really needs to
decide here is one does he have the
authority under AIPA to impose tariffs
because we've never seen this done
before and two did he invoke AIPA
correctly here? Did these national
emergencies rise to the legal standard
of being what's known as an unusual and
extraordinary threat? All this to say,
John, this is going to be very
consequential, but we do know that the
White House is preparing other ways to
use tariffs. A person familiar tells us
that the administration right now is
preparing other federal authorities that
could invoke uh the levies uh depending
on how this court case goes even as they
are optimistic about their appeal in
front of the Supreme Court.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. Moved the
goalpost a little bit here, haven't we?
It was about bringing production home,
and now it seems almost exclusively this
is about raising money.
>> Well, that's the one that's more popular
with markets, especially given the fact
that the CBO is estimating $3.3 trillion
of revenue over the next 10 years if
these tariffs stay on at this level.
There is a question of how much
production it moves back to the US, how
much that factors into the court case,
and I actually am curious where the
emphasis lies to give clues as to what
tools they will use going forward.
Joining us now is Monica Aguero of
Morgan Stanley to discuss some of this
just how much deficit risk is in play
with this court decision.
>> A significant amount. You know the uh
OBVA added, you know, 4.5 trillion to
the to the deficit in the last, you
know, estimate that they gave when they
they modeled things out. When we're
thinking about this revenue, we're
looking at about, you know, 20 billion
plus a month. That's a huge shift. It
was 5 billion prior monthly. So again,
there's a lot at risk here when you're
looking at that $2 to3 trillion range of
revenue that they're expecting. That's
enough to really offset a lot of those
budget hawk concerns, right? Especially
around the deficit. And this is one
reason why markets haven't freaked out
at some of the budget deficit concerns.
There is a question of why there hasn't
been more of a response in the long end
of the yield curve to this court ruling.
And some people argue, well, that
revenue will keep coming in regardless
one way or another. Do you agree with
that?
>> Yeah. So it's our base case that even if
the Supreme Court does rule against
Trump that, you know, if there's a will,
there's a way. And we've seen that not
just through them exploring other
options of levying tariffs through
different federal agencies, but also
through different, you know, sections of
tariff law, you know, section 232,
section 301. There's there's a ton, you
know, there's a there's a whole list.
Um, we recently published a report where
we really get into the details on each
one, the time frames, how it works. And
while some are limited, they can layer
these, and there are some that are more
long-term. So there are options out
there and I think that markets
understand that and that they're trying
to look through any volatility around
the Supreme Court.
>> The direction of CL travel is clear.
They're going to find a way to increase
tariffs even if the Supreme Court does
strike this down. But do you think the
Supreme Court is that your base case?
Will they uphold AIO they strike it
down? Um I'm not the the expert on the
Supreme Court, but what I can say is I I
think that there is a strong likelihood
that they will rule in favor of the
president. Um, and then if not, right,
it's just how do we get there? And we
also have to remember that right now the
tariffs are still in place. So it's not
like they've completely rolled off.
We're still collecting revenues, right,
as we go along. And even if we do end up
with a patchwork and say you get 10
billion a month, that's still double
what we were receiving before. And that
is a help towards that deficit.
>> How messy is that unwind going to be
though if they were have if they were h
have going to have to potentially give
back some of those funds? I mean it it
would be me it would be messy. You know
if you're thinking about even
negotiations with the EU you know
they're trying to proceed proceed as you
know business as usual but they're being
very cognizant that some of these things
may have to be unwound if things are
unstable. Now what's interesting is that
when other foreign um you know entities
have been asked in the recent days you
know how how are you approaching this
they're still continuing negotiations as
if things are in play. And so we have
to, you know, keep that in mind that
there's a strong belief that tariffs are
coming one way or the other.
>> So this sounds very technical, but I
have been getting a little bit overly
technical recently. The stay from the
court only goes till October 14th to
keep these tariffs on. The Supreme Court
has to decide to take this up and then
rule on it and that stay expires. What
happens then? I mean, can't companies go
to the government and say, "Can you give
me my money back because I paid you a
couple billion dollars?" Um, it's
unclear to me if that's retroactive,
right? So, if you're so if you're
already paying I, you know, I'm not sure
about the logistics there. I doubt it
is. I'm sure the money that the
government has collected will stay in
the Treasury where where it's safe and
sound. I would say the the biggest
concern for us from a markets lens,
right, is that if there's more
volatility here, especially for
businesses come October, you know, are
people going to hold cash on the
sidelines, are they going to continue to
wait on say capbacks expenditures? What
is the longerterm economic impact right
from that volatility, especially if
they're waiting October to November to
get that decision?
>> It has the potential to impact pricing
strategies of corporations as well. If
you think they're sitting on their hands
waiting to find out what happens here,
they're not going to pass it on to the
consumer just yet. Most people believe
that's what's been happening over the
last 2 3 months or so. They're going to
have to wait even longer. Can you
imagine sitting there in the seauite
right now trying to come with the
appropriate price to put on a product.
You've got to believe that the tariffs
are going to stay before you really
think about passing that on.
>> This is a reason why people expect that
sort of sneaky bull case to be that
reinvestment cycle. How at risk is that
should there be some sort of, you know,
prolonging of this uncertainty? Well, to
your point, Lisa, the Supreme Court
there ends the next term, June 2026.
That potentially be when we get a final
decision. And this is why the Treasury
Secretary had this declaration part of
the submission yesterday, saying that
that would be the unwinding of this
would be maybe $1 trillion in tariffs
that have already been collected. And he
says this could be significant
disruption. It's amazing how much the
bias has shifted in financial markets
seeing these tariffs as bond bullish,
bond positive when back in April it was
very very bond negative.
>> Right now people have no clue what the
long-term impact is. They're looking at
the short term. The short term is
money's coming in and that looks nice
and that's basically what Wall Street's
betting on.
>> Monica, this was nice. It's good to see
you as always. Thanks for being here.
Monica Guerrero there of Morgan Stanley.
Up next on a program, Jed Dorshimer of
William Blair on AI's impact on the US
power grid. us. We'll touch base with
Danny with your morning movers as
Goldman Sachs looks to invest as much as
$1 billion in Troll price. That stock is
up 7%.
[Music]
Stocks still just about positive, up a
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. on the
NASDAQ up by 0.2. Yesterday's bounce
supported by Apple, supported by
Alphabet. Equities are doing okay. In a
bond market, the bond market's doing
okay as well. Check out the 30-year. And
just think about the range we had
yesterday. Within a basis point of 5% on
30s in yesterday's session at the highs
at the lows 488. This morning 48745 and
down two basis points on the session.
Bailed out in many ways by weaker than
expected economic data. And Lisa, I've
got to say there was a lot of it. It
wasn't just job openings. The beige
book, which you teased and promoted
yesterday, turned out to be dreadful.
And if that's the Fed's read on what's
happening in this economy right now, no
wonder they're pivoting to rate cuts
>> because you ultimately seeflationary
types of dynamics. You saw almost no
districts of that the Fed surveyed
showing growth. There was essentially a
stagnation at the same time that
companies are raising prices. You're
seeing this in the Jolts data with job
openings coming down to the lowest
levels in about a year. You put this all
together and you think about maybe bad
news is bad news longer term which will
give a bid to bonds and maybe cap how
high inflation can get later this
morning. More data 45 minutes away ADP
15 minutes later jobless claims and then
at 10 a.m. Don't forget ISM services
worthy of a look as well. That's the
latest with the economic data 2 hours
away from the cash open with your
morning movers. Here's Danny. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. some breaking news in the last
30 minutes or so and that is Goldman
Sachs will be buying a $1 billion stake
of T-Reice. Buying those shares means
that it will become its biggest
shareholder. All of this part of a new
partnership between the two of them to
make more products, be it for public
markets or private markets. Really
trying to gear towards the retail
audience, something that Goldman Sachs
Asset Management has been trying to get
into beyond their wealth offering. So
those shares up 7.7%.
Elsewhere on the move this morning, we
are looking at Snowflake shares falling
more than one and a half% announcing
that its CFO Mike Scarpelli will be
retiring effective September 22nd.
Probably something he would like to see
his shares falling on that retirement
announcement. Probably not great for his
replacement, Brian Robbins, who will
succeed him. He is coming from GitHub
where he is currently serving as the CFO
and has been since 2020. Finally, John's
favorite story this morning and that is
American Eagle. really strong sales
numbers and they specifically said it
was because of the Sydney Sweetie
campaign saying that her signature jeans
sold out everywhere that they gained
more customers in every single county of
the US. The CEO saying that the momentum
is n national and it is real. So John,
those shares up just under 27%. Danny,
thanks for the update. Appreciate it.
Look, my take on things and this doesn't
apply to every single company on the
planet, but for most I believe they
don't have values, they care about
sales. And if you're seeing American
Eagle have success with what was a quite
polarizing strategy from them, I wonder
how many other retailers are going to
lean into the same thing in the quarters
to come.
>> You're already seeing it in some degree
in terms of the advertisements and how
much they're talking about made in
America and they're talking about, you
know, what it is to be attractive to the
opposite sex and things of that nature
that were diminished, I think, in
previous years. Well, Abberrombian Fitch
is trying to lean into this and they're
doing this whole tie up with the with
NFL. Britney Mahomes, a friend of Travis
Kelce, is going to be wearing more
Abberrombie and Fitch. So, I think
they're all trying to find their own way
to lean into this Americana
um aesthetic,
>> which makes the Cracker Barrel decision
even more ridiculous. If you can see
this is where the country is trending,
leaning into Heritage Americana, you can
see that polarizing decisions like this
one turn out to be beneficial to the
bottom line and the top line of the
company. What on earth were they doing
over at that company?
>> Well, if you're a conspiracy theorist,
you might think they did this purposely
to actually get their name out in the
press. What did Cracker Barrel get at
the end of this? A phone call from the
deputy chief of staff of the White
House. I could see a moment where you
see the president on the road, he stops
into a Cracker Barrel and he said he's
making it great again.
>> American Eagle up by 27%. Wanted to talk
about the data just briefly this coming
year. Hiring intentions, Challenger job
cuts, Lisa, this data is not good. Not
good at all.
>> And when you look deeper into this data
from Challenger Gray and Christmas, it
shows that hiring plans among the
companies they surveyed felt the weakest
level for any August on record. This
highlights the sort of churn dynamic
where maybe companies are not laying off
a great number of workers. They are
increasing layoffs, but they're not
hiring. We're seeing this also with on
the margins firing yesterday. Kico
Phillips planning to cut 25% of jobs
from their staff. You put this together.
That's the turn dynamic that's given
some people some uh agit.
>> One more data point on the labor market.
One more data point that doesn't look
great on our radar this morning. Let's
whip through some stories for you.
President Donald Trump taking his global
tariff fight to the Supreme Court. The
administration asking the high court to
take up the case by September 10th and
to put it on an expedited schedule with
arguments expected in early November.
Elsewhere, President Trump's pick for
Federal Reserve Governor facing a Senate
confirmation hearing today. Steven Myron
saying he will preserve the independence
of the central bank as the president
vows to gain a majority on the Fed. And
finally, tech industry leaders attending
an AI event at the White House today.
The first lady, Melania Trump, hosting
CEOs from Meta, Apple, Microsoft,
Google, and more. The event will be
followed by a reception with President
Trump in the Rose Garden
>> with a real discussion around how to
expedite some of the use of AI in
businesses in schools in particular.
This is a big issue. I was really struck
by the pavers they put over the rose
garden. They took away the grass. I just
was really uh struck by that. I
>> I have a lot to say about this.
>> Okay. But we Okay. But it really to me
highlights how they want to make these
the national champions at a time where
there's this real tension especially
after the Google case and this question
about what they could do with antitrust
or not. How do you make national
champions while also clamping down on
things that are bipartisan issue?
>> Two things notably one individual
missing that you would have in an event
like this Elon Musk. He is clearly still
very far from the president's have
fallen from the graces of the president.
Two the rose garden. Those umbrellas,
the president must be missing Mara Lago
and you heard a White House official say
the Rose Garden Club is the hottest
thing in town. Those put up the
pictures. Those umbrellas, those yellow
umbrellas are I don't know if you've
been to Mara Lago. They literally look
like the patio in Mara Lago. When I was
there last week waiting to go into the
cabinet room, the president was actually
also showcasing and playing his
playlist. The same playlist when he DJs
at Mara Lago, he's now doing in the Rose
Garden. You can hear it every single
day.
>> Is that the rant?
>> That's the rant. It's a little weird.
>> And that's the umbrellas. I'm with you.
I'm following it. Are you saying this is
going to be a membership scheme in years
to come?
>> That's I mean, it literally sounds like
this is his new club and he's having his
first party. It sounds like today with,
you know, the the tech world.
>> Save the grass. I mean,
>> are you on the grass back?
>> I just
>> Wasn't this about high heels and being
able to walk?
>> The president said it's a big issue for
the ladies with their heels, which I do
actually have.
>> Wear sneakers. I I I well it's hard to
wear sneakers cuz then you're in a suit
your pants are hemmed. I have a little I
I do feel for the ladies that have to
wear their heels in the grass. I've been
one of them. But at the same time now
it's just all this pavement and it's a
little weird.
>> The important stuff right here on
Bloomberg Surveillance. Let's turn to
the AI race. Barclay is predicting Wall
Street could see a 100 billion plus M&A
deal in the sector by this time next
year. Jed Dorshimer, the group head of
energy and power technologies for
William Blair writing the following.
Demand for data center growth has been
building for the past 20 years. Until
recently, this demand was manageable.
Jed joins us now for more. Jed, welcome
to the program, sir. Let's spend some
time on this. What is making
increasingly less manageable? What makes
it unmanageable right now? Well, I think
it's just the I think we have been
lulled into this complacency of
maintenance for the past 50 years where
we've, you know, gotten used to, you
know, half to 1% type growth in terms of
capacity and now all of a sudden you're
seeing this surge driven by the race to
build these data centers and uh the
capex uh spend and quite frankly the
grid which used to you know how we built
that grid out which used to be around
firm base load. A lot of the variability
that's been brought on by renewables is
just making this incompatible and that's
what uh you know that's the friction
that we're seeing in the uh uh within
our power sector.
>> Jed, could you just illustrate to us
just spell out for us directly just how
great demand for electricity has been
and a point that I know you want to make
just how unevenly that demand is
dispersed across this country.
>> Sure. I mean listen if you want to the
the nexus for data centers is in
Virginia but what you are seeing is
states where um you have uh cheap or
therefore firm base load uh where you're
seeing these these uh that you know it's
not an even dispersement in terms of
who's benefiting from the capex. Uh so
it tends to be south and southeast uh as
well as some of the um uh the mountain
states such as Idaho uh Wyoming. Um and
you know I think that so it's never been
an even spread but I think the you know
both of the uh coasts have largely been
a beneficiary and now you're seeing a a
pretty dramatic change with respect to
where people are building out and that
is those decisions for these data
centers are being built around where you
have access to energy locally. Jed, how
do you map out a long-term plan that
backs stops some sort of big
infrastructure project at a time when
technology is changing pretty
significantly and quickly? The news
overnight was that Deepseek over in
China is preparing an AI agent that can
compete with open AI. And it just goes
to this idea that maybe eventually a lot
of the artificial intelligence can be
done more cheaply, more efficiently,
without as much energy. How does that
factor into some of the models that
people have for projects that span out
decades ahead?
>> So, it's a great question. It's one that
I'm receiving all the time. That's
that's probably But I want to point out
you said, you know, cheaply,
efficiently, with less energy. Those
three don't match up. And so there's
this um concept known as Jevans paradox
by economist William Jevans back in 1865
who was asked to look into the
efficiency of coal and this is held up
throughout time. So technology is
deflationary. So technology will drive
down costs but as the social utility for
that technology increases the use model
always goes up. And so I'll give you an
example. When I grew up, my parents' car
got maybe 5 miles, 7 miles per gallon.
Today, that's typical automobile, you
know, non-hybrid or electric is getting
35 m per gallon. What happened was
people bought you know my parents now
have two cars and they might you know
they drive more and so as and I think
the same is going to happen with AI that
as the use as that uh technology becomes
cheaper the use will go up therefore the
energy that's needed to provide even if
you get to ei uh you get to models and
agents that are more efficient it's only
going to proliferate and that's going to
require more energy.
>> When it comes to energy, what kind of
sources are you talking about, Jed?
>> Well, I think the primary beneficiary is
going to be natural gas and going to be
nuclear. And the reason being is when we
start what we're starting to see is the
real economics behind variability. So,
while solar and wind sound great, um
it's wreaking havoc on the uh the grid.
And there's really, you know, you can
solve some of that with batteries, but
it certainly pushes up the cost of that.
So, you know, the conclusion that we've
come to, and we did a we did a
statistically significant study with
531, it was a meta analysis with 531
different data sets. Um, and what we
found was that as you get over 10% on a
grid, and the US is split up into seven
different grids, uh, as you get over 10%
penetration of variable assets, that the
variable the variability actually usurps
the asset cost. What does that mean? It
means that there's no benefit. It only
pushes up prices. And people are already
feeling that squeeze. I've got this
saying, you know, pain at the plug. And
I think that's going to be a meme that
becomes more popular because we usually
talk about it at the pump in terms of
oil prices etc. And I think the squeeze
uh is going to be on the uh electricity
bills um from all of this.
>> Jed, it's already happening and I
couldn't agree with you more. I think by
the midterms next year, this is going to
become a really big political issue.
Jed, appreciate your time, sir. Let's do
it again soon. Jed doors shimer there of
William Blair. That's going to be
potentially one of the number one issues
alongside housing affordability in the
next 12 months.
>> It's it's already been an issue in
Washington. You see a number of members
of Congress concerned because their
constituents are saying, "My electricity
bill is coming up and guess what? You
have these AI companies, tech companies
coming in and just having this massive
demand when it comes to wanting to power
um all their technology and all the
energy that's going to be needed for
this." What Jed point was the fact that
you're going to need natural gas. You're
going to need nuclear. You you're going
to need every single source of power to
be able to do this.
>> We've got lots of economic data coming
up this morning in about 30 minutes
time. The ADP report after that jobless
claims. Before we get there, let's get
you an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yhira. Hey
yra.
>> Hi John. Harvard University scoring a
major legal victory in its battle with
the Trump administration. A court ruled
that the US illegally froze more than $2
billion in research funding. Judge
Allison Burrough said the administration
violated Harvard's free speech
protections as well as US civil rights
and administrative laws. Meanwhile, the
New York Giants have agreed to sell a
minority stake in their storied
franchise to Julia Ko and members of the
billionaire Ko family. The deal is for
10% of the franchise at a record
valuation of $10 billion. According to
Sportico, a sale cannot be finalized
until it is presented to other NFL
owners at a meeting in October. And
speaking of sports and deals, Bloomberg
hosting its annual Power Players event
today in New York City set against the
backdrop of the US Open. Bloomberg Power
Players brings together influential
voices like the ones behind me from the
business of sports to identify the next
wave of disruption that could hit this
multi- trillion dollar global industry.
Check out all the coverage on the
terminal on live go. Dr. Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yahara. Thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes. Up next on the program
confirming Steven Myron.
>> He would like to see uh Steven who I
I've known for a long time get on there
as soon as possible by uh putting Steven
in. That gives us more time.
>> In just a second, we'll catch up with
the former New York Fed President Bill
Dudley from New York City. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Stocks are positive just about. Up by
0.1% on the S&P, up by 0.2 two on the
NASDAQ 100. Bonds are stable. 2-year,
10year, 30-year twos at the front end of
the curve. Near the lows of the year at
360 at the long end of the curve in
yesterday's session, backing away from
5% off the back of weaker than expected
jolts data. Job openings lower. Also a
pretty disappointing negative read on
the economy in the page book. Then this
morning, Bremo challenger job cuts. Now,
I know typically we don't make a big
deal of this, but it just reinforces the
current view, which is this labor market
has slowed down,
>> and frankly, hiring plans just are not
there. We're already seeing that with
the excuse of artificial intelligence,
but it's a convenient excuse at a time
where you're trying to plug gaps to uh
not necessarily hire anybody new.
Everyone who I talked to among the
retail CEOs are making their money by
cutting costs. How are they cutting
costs on the margins? Attrition, not
necessarily hiring as much. And you're
seeing this across the board. Well, jobs
data about 30 minutes away, 25 minutes
away. The ADP report just around the
corner and a surveillance in Washington
DC confirming Steven Myron. The
president uh has great sway with Leader
Thoon. Leader Thoon's been a great
partner during the tax deal. And I think
that he would like to see uh Steven, who
I I've known for a long time, get on
there as soon as possible. I uh putting
Steven Meyer in that gives us more time.
And again, I want to cast a wide net.
The president's very open-minded.
>> So, here's the latest. This morning,
President Donald Trump's Fed Governor
nominee, Steven Myron, emphasizing his
commitment to Fed independence, writing
in his open ring remarks. My opinions
and decisions will be based on my
analysis of the macroeconomy and what's
best for its long-term stewardship. The
former New York Fed President, Bill
Dudley, joins us now for more. Bill,
welcome back to the program, sir. I
imagine you'll be tuned in later on this
morning when that hearing begins. But
what would you like to hear?
>> Well, I think that he's already
foreshadowed what he's going to say. The
the Senate is worried about the
compromising the Fed's independence and
that's probably the only thing that
could hang up this confirmation hearing
and he's already stated in his his
opening remarks that he's going to honor
that. uh obviously what that means in
practice once you're in the Federal
Reserve uh will what remains to be seen
but he's going to say the right things
and I expect him to get confirmed.
>> Bill, I imagine that you're very focused
on Fed independence and I understand why
but when you look at financial markets
we haven't seen a major deankering of
inflation expectations. This hasn't
showed up in a dramatic fashion. Do you
see anything to be concerned about?
Well, I think that uh what President
Trump is trying to do is unprecedented
trying to fire a sitting of Federal
Reserve governor. U whether that
ultimately leads to majority control of
the board of governors and then what
does the board of governors do with that
majority control? People have speculated
that they could uh make decisions about
the renewal of the Federal Reserve Bank
president's uh terms when they come up
in February of next year. Um but I think
you know we don't really know where this
is going to go. I think the effort
though is unprecedented. So I think you
have to take it seriously. Um I think at
this point markets are still pretty
comfortable about this. I think probably
a little too comfortable given the fact
that the president is trying so hard to
influence monetary policy. But how this
plays out we there's a long way to go.
Bill though, when it comes to what's
going on in terms of potentially having
the reinstatement of uh the regional
presidents, that would mean that
governors Waller and Bowman would need
to sign up for that. You know, these
individuals. You think that's something
they'd be interested in doing?
>> Well, I think that's exa I think you got
exactly right. uh you you could have
four people that were Trump appointees
on the board of governors, but not all
four might not agree to go so far as
start to really change the composition
of the Federal Market Committee by not
reappointing presidents. So I think
you're you're and I think that's one
reason why people are pretty optimistic
that this this worst case scenario in
terms of Fed independence is not going
to happen. That said, we're already
seeing actions that are unprecedented
and that that's that's not the only
thing that the president potentially
could do to undercut Fed independence.
So, the very efforts that he's making, I
think he one has to take it seriously
because the the process in the game
isn't over yet.
>> Well, when you look at this
unprecedented action, I think you're
talking about what's going on with
Governor Lisa Cook. But what happens if
she is charged basically with mortgage
fraud? Wouldn't that be for cause for
the president to say she doesn't have
the trust in in the public?
>> Well, I think there's two issues here.
The first issue is what does for cause
uh mean in terms of can you dismiss some
someone for cause uh unrelated to their
actual uh uh performance on the job.
Most people have interpreted for cause
meaning negligence, gross incompetent,
incompetence, malfeasants in the
execution of your job. The second issue
though with Lisa Cook's issue is if she
is if she were to be found guilty, the
question is even if the president
doesn't have the authority to to remove
her, is it is it really tenable for her
to stay on the Fed at that point? So I
think there is also the question about
you know could she stay on the Fed if
she was found guilty even if the
president was found to not have the
authority to fire her. You sit on the
Breton and Woods committee bill and I
really am trying to think more broadly
here about what Fed independence means
right now given the fact that the United
States has a huge deficit and
increasingly it is more pegged to Fed
policy than ever before. It gets issued
increasingly at shorter uh
denominations. What does Fed
independence mean when these are
appointed individuals with uh inherent
views on exactly how hot the economy
should run and what the compromise
should be when it comes to how quickly
to bring down inflation to 2%.
>> So the way I would interpret Fed
independence is it doesn't mean the Fed
can do whatever it wants. The Fed has to
basically follow the guidance of
Congress in terms of its objectives and
Congress has said the objectives for the
Fed are maximum sustainable employment
and price stability. So those are the
objectives. What Fed independence means
is the Federal Reserve should be able to
conduct monetary policy independent of
political pressure to achieve those
objectives. And the problem with you
know compromising the central bank's
independence is that the the central
bank loses credibility. People start to
ask the question is the Fed cutting
rates because that's the right thing to
do or are they Fed is the Fed cutting
rates because they're under political
pressure. Uh obviously the the the
election cycle plays into the
president's calculations does not play
into the Federal Reserve's calculations.
And one reason why central bank
independence has become very prevalent
around the world is it leads to better
economic outcomes. It allows the the
central bank to take the longer view not
to overstimulate the economy and runs
through elections then not have to slam
on the brakes after the election when
inflation actually starts to be
realized. So Fed independence leads to
better economic outcomes and that's why
it's it's got broad support around the
world.
>> Bill, appreciate your time as always. It
will be an interesting one in a few
hours time. Bill Dudley there, former
New York Fed president Neil Data of
Renmack joins the program a little bit
later this morning. Writes in the
sanguin nature of the bond market is a
combination of the president is right
about rate cuts, AI will bring down
disinflation and he won't get away with
any crazy stuff. is this market that's
assuming that this is a politically
motivated Fed that they're going to cut
rates that's going to keep everything
kind of humming along and no one's
thinking about what happens if the
economy actually isn't doing well and
what that does to the broader uh the
broader risk asset sphere.
>> This Fed has been recklessly doubish for
years. I mean like that's the Fed that
this whole market's used to
>> and it hasn't gotten inflation down to
2% for years as well.
>> Let's go.
>> What's going to be changing?
>> Well, that's that's really the ultimate
question and that's what I'm really
curious about over the next few months.
with you particularly on the balance
sheet. Anyway, we could come back to
that. And next on the program, we'll
catch up with Omar Aguilar of Schwab
Asset Management. Neil Data of Renac
will be with us too and we'll have that
jobs data about 20 minutes from now.
>> This is still a techdriven market.
>> Large cap US market itself has been the
place to be.
>> In general, things have been drifting
more positive. Valuations are toppy, but
generally firms are performing.
>> Valuation is always in our mind, but at
the end of the day, valuation alone is
something that doesn't end bull markets.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Anie Hordern.
>> Okay, this is it. I don't think I've
ever done this before. 15 minutes away
from the ADP report.
>> I'll remember this.
>> This is where we're at. All right, from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning to all. Third hour
of Bloomberg surveillance starts right
now and your scores look like this.
Equity futures positive on the S&P by
0.15% up by2 on the Nasdaq. In the bond
market well behaved so far this morning.
Sub 5% on 30s, sub 360 on twos, sub420
on 10s, 41858.
And the next hour looks like this. 8:30
Eastern time jobless claims. But 15
minutes before that, the ADP report
taking on additional importance over the
last month,
>> especially not only because of the
firing of the BLS head after the last
payrolls report, uh, but also because
revisions have actually brought the
headline payrolls figure down to where
the ADP is more consistently. So,
there's actually been more correlation
than there has been in the past. Look,
what we're going to get is the onetwo
punch that shows the low higher low fire
type of dynamic, the churn in the labor
market that we have seen that has marked
the past, say, six months. It continues.
At what point do we reach a breaking
point? And I wonder if when we look back
on today's data, if the challenger gray
and Christmas data showing low hiring
plans from companies might end up being
the most relevant data point of the
morning. Well, it's the second tier data
as some would say, but it's becoming
more important because of also how
people have basically just been putting
some cold water on the first tier data,
which would be tomorrow. But tomorrow,
if we get sub 100,000 employment, job
growth added, that would mark the
weakest stretch since the onset of the
pandemic. And the question I have is is
this real weakening or is this what
Stuart Kaiser said earlier? Did
corporate America take a siesta for six
months and then potentially second half
of this year when all this policy
uncertainty is basically getting
wrapped up? We can actually potentially
see corporate America go back to labor
market.
>> This is what he would call the sneaky
bullcase, the reaceleration. I'm not
sure how sneaky it is. Increasingly,
that's what the market has positioned
for since the start of August. A
reaceleration with small caps
outperforming. I've talked about the
homebuilders, the airlines, banks came
into September at or near all-time
highs. This market's been positioning
for exactly that bull case.
>> This is the conundrum though. A lot of
this has followed earnings which also
have reacelerated and the earnings
growth has been better than expected,
but it has come without a reaceleration
in hiring. So, this goes to the
questions around artificial intelligence
technology. Is there something else at
play here where you could see
profitability increase and not see
commensurate hiring plans, not seeing it
trickle out to the rest of the United
States economy?
>> Some tension building there between jobs
in this market. Potentially more jobs
data 12 minutes away. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Omar Aguilar
of Schwabast Management as stocks trade
near all-time highs. Neil Data of
Renmack as investors are gearing up for
jobs data and Sabbatra Jaffer of Sockgen
as the 30-year Treasury yield backs away
from 5%. We begin this hour with stocks
edging higher ahead of key reports on
the labor market. Omar Aguual Schwam
Asset Management CEO and CIO writing
economic uncertainty is still high so
think long term, stay disciplined, stay
invested and stay diversified. No need
to be a hero. Omar joins us now for
more. Omar, welcome to the program sir.
Let's talk about that economic
uncertainty. How are you getting a clean
read on the economy in America?
>> Well, you know, the the big part of of
the trade-offs right now between
inflation, unemployment, economic
deceleration, and overall, you know, the
the path that we're seem to be going
here. It is unclear how the consumers
are actually driving, you know, the
majority of um economic growth. We have
seen so far this K-shaped economy where
the top end of earners continue to drive
GDP growth and the wealth effect coming
from equity markets, coming from
housing, coming from anything else seem
to be very consistently supporting
economic growth where the other part of
the economy, the lower income consumers
seems to be, you know, suffering from,
you know, the pressures on inflation,
the increasing in prices. So that sort
of K-shaped economy seems to be the one
driving a lot of this economic
uncertainty and the trend seems to
pointing out towards deceleration.
>> No need to be a hero. I keep thinking
about that the implication is focus on
quality as you say. What is quality
mean? How is the idea of quality
changing given the backdrop potentially
of inflation? The backdrop given of slow
growth with this sort of persistent
price pressure.
>> Yeah. The the big part of here Lisa is
that we have these um forces that are
sort of going at each other. Um you know
inflation seems to be very sticky and
stubborn. Uh we seeing the u economic
value and the unemployment being in this
no higher no fire situation. We see wage
growth still tickling up a little bit
putting pressure on inflation and
something at some point is probably have
to give up. Uh what that what that means
is that in certain way the deceleration
supports a stronger balance sheets,
supports discipline in management, s
supports capital expenditures, supports
areas that define the quality of a
company where corporate America is using
all the potential tailwinds coming from
the economy to be able to manage their
business in a way that is consistent
with what their consumers expect but at
the same time have the potential for a
sustainable and That's the definition of
quality, sustainable earnings growth.
When you put that into context, that's
where we refer us to say look for those
companies that allows you to stay
invested that continues to have a
strength in the balance sheets and that
will be stronger even if the economy
decelerates. So that's a big part of of
what we have on both on fixed income as
well as on equities.
>> Can you find more quality, more
reliability in corporations versus
governments right now?
You know, corporations have been very
disciplined over the entire period since
the pandemic. And if you actually look
at a big part of the driver, you can see
it in the credit market. The credit
spreads have been incredibly tight. And
most importantly, not only the level,
but if you actually see the level of
volatility of the credit market, it's
actually very surprising to just see
that even though we have seen all kinds
of uncertainty coming from headlines and
everything else, we've seen this that
incredibly um you know well positioned
for for for high quality companies where
leverage has not been high. You know,
obviously there are companies that have
done it and that have been in in the
process of potentially um you know,
disappointing in terms of their future,
but overall that quality is being well
affecting credit. When you think about
governments deficits have ballooned and
you actually see what's going on in the
UK, what's going on in in the United
States, you know, clearly, you know, a
little a little bit of that defense
expending as well of capital
expenditures that has been positive for
the economy. It obviously puts a little
bit more pressure on the long part of
the fixed income curve. And you can
actually see just that level of
volatility than that we see in the in
the long end of the of of the yield
curve.
>> This is why it's so challenging when you
look at what the Supreme Court has in
front of them. This could actually
impact potentially what bonds do. Given
the fact that trillions of dollars
coming to the United States from tariffs
is supposed to be depleting the deficit.
Omar, if we were to see the Supreme
Court strike down what is going on with
AIPA and the president of the United
States, what would that mean for the
bond market?
>> Well, first of all, the things that are
actually very clear, the trend for the
yield curve is to steeper. I think we
are convinced, you know, in our research
that, you know, overall the uncertainty
in the long end long end of the yield
curve, you know, will continue. We see
that even just in the last 24 hours
where we've seen volatility on the
30-year uh you know yield on bonds you
know being you know quite dramatic and a
lot of that is because a inflation
expectations but two is also you know
what will be the long-term you know
views in terms of the deficit regarding
you know to the the setup that may
happen with the uncertainty of tariffs.
It's kind of interesting to see that
uncertainty of tariffs, you know,
started by affecting sort of the the
short part of the yield curve and now
has been pushed towards towards the long
end of the curve precisely for what you
you just described, which is a big part
of why, you know, the the the middle of
the curve seems to be the one that has
been the most stable. And even when the
yield curve, you know, starts to
steepen, you can actually still see some
stability in in that area.
>> It's become such a consensus trade, at
least at the belly of the curve. How
many people have come on this program so
far this year and talked about
positioning in the belly of the curve
and not wanting to go out any further?
>> And this kind of highlights the concern
about long-term conceptions of
investing, right? How do you invest
long-term in a government? It kind of
threatens the idea of 6040 at a time
when potentially if you don't have
confidence in a government going out and
you're betting on your retirement
package, say 10, 20, 30 years out, how
does that kind of shift where you kind
of mark tomarket things? Hey Omar, I
appreciate your time. Omar Aguila of
Schwab Asset Management there with some
important themes. The one you absolutely
now I think you're dead on. That's why
we've seen the tightness of credit
spreads at least is one of the reasons
anyway. Investment grade credit spreads
haven't been much tighter than they are
right now over the last two decades.
>> Yeah. And this is the the sort of idea
maybe you could see corporations with a
better creditworthiness, tighter spreads
relative to Treasury yields just based
on the fact they've done better with
their balance sheets and their business
plans than maybe the federal government.
Got some economic data just around the
corner, 5 minutes away. Going into it,
10s at 418, the lowest since May. Yields
are lower this morning now by 3 to four
basis points. With an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief,
here's Yahara. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. Tech industry leaders are
heading to the White House today. CEOs
from Meta, Apple, Microsoft, Google,
OpenAI, and more are all expected to
attend an AI event hosted by First Lady
Melania Trump, followed by an evening
reception with President Trump in the
newly renovated Rose Garden. Meanwhile,
Republican Senator Tom Tillis says he
wouldn't consider a replacement for
Federal Reserve Governor Lisa Cook until
there is a court decision on President
Trump's move to fire her. Tillis, a key
member of the Senate Banking Committee,
told reporters he doesn't know if the
allegations against Cook would qualify
as cause. And Yannik Center heading to
the US Open semi-finals after defeating
fellow Italian Lorenzo Mousetti last
night. Now, if Center wins tomorrow, he
would reach the finals of all four
majors this year. And on the women's
side, Amanda Anisimova beat out
topranked Eigashiantic, redeeming
herself in a rematch of the Wimbledon
final. Anisova faces Naomi Osaka in the
semifinals tonight. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> serious redemption. Very, very cool to
see that. Yhara, thank you. Up next on a
program, Neil Data of Renac with
investors gearing up for jobs data in a
few minutes time. It's the big one. ADP
coming up next.
[Music]
Historically, what's mattered most of
all, it's the growth impulse. It's the
inflation impulse. It's a predictable
policy framework around monetary and
fiscal policy. You know, a lot of those
kind of core steady attributes of the
macro environment are in historic
uncertainty. It means that macro matters
more than ever cannot be ignored.
>> Mike Pal of Black Rockck in just a few
minutes time. 60 seconds away. A data
point you used to ignore. Can you ignore
it anymore? Equity futures on the S&P
positive by 0.2% on the S&P 500. Up by
0.3 on the Nasdaq 100. On the Russell up
by a third of 1%. Turn to the bond
market. 2year, 10year, 30-year. 10-year
bond yields now down by close to four
basis points. sub420 at 418 30-year bond
yields backing away from 5% within a
basis point of that level in yesterday's
session this morning down four basis
points to 48594
the ADP report lined up the estimate in
our survey 68K the previous number 104
with the number this morning is Mike
McKe good morning Mike
>> good morning John I'm looking right now
at the number it's 54,000 54,000 jobs
according to ADP
comes in lower than the forecast you
just mentioned of 68,000 and certainly
down from a revised 106,000 last month.
So this is not good news for the markets
and it is something that was
foreshadowed by Governor Chris Waller
who noted that the Fed buys data from
ADP on a weekly basis and it had
deteriorated during the months since the
last jobs report. Taking a look at
industry by industry, goods producing uh
gained 13,000 jobs but manufacturing
lost 7,000. And the gain was in
construction of 16,000. And in service
providing, uh, we see trade and
information services down 17,000.
Education and health services down
12,000. Uh, it's interesting, Omar
Sharif of Inflation Insights putting out
a note this morning saying, "Watch that
social and education health services
category because that's been the one
that's provided most of the jobs for
this year so far. And if it's losing
jobs, that is odd." And it is also not
particularly good for the economy.
Leisure and hospitality jobs made up the
majority of the jobs that we got. Uh
50,000 jobs for the month of August. So
it isn't an overall great number. And I
I might just mention the uh the pay
numbers that they use for ADP. Job
stayers got raises of 4.4%. Change jobs
you get 7.1%. Fairly healthy. But how
many people are changing jobs these
days?
>> Mike, a picture of the economy over the
last two days so far this week. Mike, if
you put together the Beige Burke ISM job
openings for the earlier month of July,
this data this morning, it's not a great
read, is it?
It's not a great read. It basically
shows you an economy that is kind of in
stasis, not moving forward terribly, not
moving back terribly, but the trend is
what some members of the open market
committee have been talking about. And
that would be concerning because the
trend is towards slower growth and
slower employment growth which would
feed on itself. So we'll have to see
what we get tomorrow in terms of jobs
and whether that tells the same story.
Oh, and don't forget ISM services at 10.
It's an important read. Mike, we'll be
back with you in about 13 minutes time.
Jobless claims are just around the
corner. Mike McKe breaking down the ADP
report that comes in a whole lot softer
than expected. Equity futures stay
positive, but Brema, this just puts a
lid on this bond market, doesn't it?
just keeps a lid on yields across the
curve. 10-year yields are down by three
or four basis points.
>> Yeah, down at the lowest level since May
1st of this year. The irony is Michael
said that this was bad for markets and
maybe in the long term if there is
weakness, this will be. But right now,
it is unabashedly a good thing for
markets because they believe that it
will give the Fed the reason to cut
rates and that that will be enough to
generate some sort of momentum out of
the stasis. But right now you can see
this it's just sort of a grind to
nowhere at a time with pricing pressures
and that's what the data is reflecting.
>> If you are just joining us welcome to
the program. This is how things are set
up so far this morning. The number comes
in softer than expected on ADP. 54K the
number we were expecting in our survey
was closer to 70. 68K was the median
estimate in about 12 minutes time. We'll
have some more jobs data for you.
Jobless claims are just around the
corner. To discuss this data point and
more Neil Dutter of Renac joins us now.
Neil, welcome to the program. Just offer
us your assessment of just where this
labor market is coming into September.
>> Well, thanks for having me on, John. Uh,
it's uh cooling
>> but not collapsing. So, I think that's
how you can sort of characterize it. I
mean, it's a very very sluggish labor
market. And I think what's important is
that, you know, consumers are telling us
pretty clearly that labor market
conditions are deteriorating. So if you
look at uh the conference board for
example, jobs hard to get uh that's
climbing and I think that's important
because consumers tend to spot changes
in their local economies in front of
what BLS statisticians tell you, right?
So they know about pink slips being
handed out. They see the help wanted
signs in their community storefronts and
if they're telling us uh that jobs are
becoming increasingly harder to get, uh
you should believe them. And that tends
to lead uh the official statistics. So,
you know, my sense is that there's an
ongoing sort of labor market slowdown
that's already in train. Um, you know, I
heard Mike McKe mention that
construction employment rose uh 15
16,000 over the month. I mean, it's
really hard to see why that continues
considering construction activity is
continuing to slow down. I mean, we're
just coming off a month where building
permits hit their lowest level um you
know, for the cycle. And so if there's
less construction activity going on,
there's obviously less need for
construction payrolls.
>> Neil, I'm looking right now at the
Russell 2000 futures and I'm seeing them
up on this data and I am wondering
whether you think that the risk markets
are being overly sanguin about the scope
of this labor market weakening that you
see as being something that will
ultimately be beneficial because rate
cuts can save it. I mean, do you think
that that's a sort of overly rosy
outlook on things? Well, I don't think
Lisa that this is like last year, right?
I mean, this is not a situation where
some rate cuts are good. Um, I think
we're maybe entering a situation where
the markets will have to price in more
rate cuts and that may not be so good
because what that implies for earnings.
So, you know, this is not unusual. I
mean you typically see the markets rally
uh you know on the expectation of
additional rate cuts and then when it
becomes clear why the Fed is cutting
rates uh then the markets tend to um you
know get a reality check in that
situation. So I'm not surprised by uh
the market the equity market response
but uh you know I wouldn't say that that
um you know basically cancels the the
risk of a deeper slowdown in front of
us. What you're saying is really
important, Neil. Are you saying that the
150 basis points of rate cuts priced in
by the end of next year is not enough
based on what you're seeing in the labor
market?
>> Yes, that's what I think. I mean, five
is like a very weird number, right? I
mean, it's either too many or not
enough. And I tend to think that it's
probably not enough uh between now and
the end of 2026. I mean, you have
ongoing declines in construction. That's
probable between now and the end of the
year. you haven't really seen much of an
increase in housing demand even though
mortgage rates have declined about 35
basis points over the last uh you know 3
months or so. Uh we had a meaningful uh
juice to the economy from state and
local government spending in the first
half of the year adding about 30 basis
points to growth. Really hard to see why
that continues into the back half. We're
seeing lots of news around the country
about, you know, budget tightening
across state and local governments. Um,
and with the labor markets slowing, that
means that household incomes are
moderating at a time when there's
probably some upward pressure on
inflation uh from tariffs. And so, uh,
that means a further decline in real
incomes, which means that which means
that consumers are going to have to cut
back a little bit more. So, um, yeah, I
mean, I think the economy is in a very,
very rough spot. Uh and um you know I
think the news is going to get worse
before it gets better.
>> Yeah. When you talk about upward
pressure on inflation because of
tariffs, you have Steve Meyer who's
going to be in front of the Senate
Banking Committee today saying on X last
night, it's extremely difficult to argue
that tariffs are causing any meaningful
inflation. Um how is he going to explain
that one to senators?
>> Well, I think what's more important
because Steve is obviously getting
confirmed. I think what's more important
is how that argument is going to hold
around the table at the FOMC. I mean, if
you're making the argument that tariffs
are having no meaningful upward pressure
on inflation, then that begs the
question, why is inflation running above
target? So, I think it's much more
important to kind of just focus on
what's going on in the job market. And
you know, the labor markets are
cracking. And that's why the increase in
goods prices that you're likely seeing
from tariffs will be a one-off because
the nominal anchor continues to slow
down. People do not have the ability,
the wherewithal to absorb the higher
prices. And that's what essentially
ensures that uh you're not going to get
um you know, second round effects with
respect to uh you know, tariff driven
inflation. And you'll probably see some
squeezing in services as people uh cut
back.
>> Do you think there's an argument and
maybe a number tomorrow would show this
that the Fed should cut by 50 basis
points when they meet?
>> I think it's really hard to push that
through, Anie. I mean, you could
probably persuade me um for a 50, but I
don't think this is like last year uh
where um you know, where what I thought
the Fed should do and what they would do
align. I think this is a situation where
there's only so much the Fed can deliver
up front. I mean, right now the debate
on the committee is do we cut it all or
do we cut twice this year? And you know,
it's really hard to kind of nudge people
along that don't even think they should
be cutting at all cutting this year. So,
it's really hard in my opinion to push
through a 50 basis point move. Uh what
you could do is maybe um you know push
folks in the direction of penciling in
more rate cuts for 2026. Now, just
before you go, in about 45 seconds if
you can. You've got this right. Governor
Waller has been getting this right.
Chairman Pal's been playing catchup with
Fed Governor Chris Waller. What's helped
you coming into 2025? What's guided you
over the last few months, the last few
quarters?
>> Well, I mean, I think it's just, you
know, first principles. I mean, if if um
the Fed cut rates, right, and normally
you'd expect housing market conditions
to improve as a result of that. Guess
what's happened? It's gotten worse. Um,
you know, you've seen consumers tell
you, um,
you know, that labor market conditions
are still getting worse. I mean, when
consumers tell you something, believe
them. Um, so I do think we're kind of,
you know, in this uh, you know, soft
spot for the economy. And I think uh,
it's likely um, you know, as I said, I
mean, you just go down the list, John. I
mean, consumer spending, which way is
that going? Probably weaker. Residential
investment probably weaker. state and
local government spending and investment
probably weaker. Um you can't just hold
the entire economy up on AI related
investment. And let's be clear, I mean
that's also fungeible. I mean do we
really think that companies are going to
be spending as much as they have been on
AI related investment if advertising
spending slows? If consumer spending
slows I mean those numbers are not fixed
>> points in space. I mean I think it's all
sort of part of the same ecosystem for
these companies. So, um, you know, I
mean, that's that's kind of where I'm
at. Um, and you know, we'll see what
happens, but, uh, you know, generally
speaking, um, you know, my sense,
>> I got to go. Clean shaven for ADP.
That's how seriously you're taking it.
From New York, this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
The opening bow 60 minutes away, 30
seconds away from initial jobless
claims. Moments ago, ADP came in soft,
54K against an estimate of 68. In the
equity market, we stay positive by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100
up by 0.2. In the bond market, switch up
the board. 2-year, 10-year, and 30-year
bond yields look like this, down by
three basis points on 10ens to 31839.
with the latest on the jobs market with
your jobless claims data is Mike McKe.
Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Looking for the
numbers to pop up here and they haven't
quite yet. We can say the trade deficit
widens to 78.3 billion from 60.2 uh
billion. And that's largely because we
imported a lot. 5.9% increase in
imports, 3/10en%
increase in exports. Get back to that in
a second. Jobless claims now 237. A
little bit higher than anticipated. The
230 was the forecast last week, 229. The
continuing claims number, 1,940,000.
That's down from 1,944.
So, some mixed numbers on jobless claims
probably don't add anything to the
narrative of what's going on in the
labor market. Now, people will be more
concerned about what we did see with
ADP, only 54,000 jobs created. But I do
want to go back to for just a second to
the trade balance because that's going
to worsen GDP uh growth outlook for the
third quarter, July, the first month of
the quarter. Uh and the imports up 5.9%
after being down 3.7%
in the uh in June suggests that there
was another pull ahead effect of people
stocking up on imports before the
president put tariffs back on in August.
So that's something to keep an eye on.
the uh effect of all of this if if that
reverses uh we'll have a different kind
of number for the month of August.
>> Mike, can we just stand this August
data? So the four-week average now on
claims is 231. The number you just read
out 237 the estimate was 230. If you
looked at all the other labor market
indicators, Mike, they're not spanning a
great story. They're not drawing a
fantastic picture of the US labor market
at the moment. And yet, Mike, jobless
claims. If you only had jobless claims,
you'd think this labor market was still
pretty strong. Mike, is there a
disconnect there? What do you think that
speaks to?
>> Oh, I think it's uh just confirming the
narrative that we've been hearing from
Fed officials and from corporate leaders
for quite some time that they're not
hiring. They're concerned for what's
going to happen with tariffs and what's
going to happen with the economy, but
they're not firing either. uh they are
at this point just trying to hold on to
workers as long as they can because if
things suddenly pick up. They don't want
to have to go through what they went
through after COVID in trying to find
people. Also, with the labor market in
recent months slowing uh growth in the
labor market slowing, it could be even
harder to find people. So, they're going
to hold on as long as they can. And that
seems to be what's going on with jobless
claims. We're also just at the period
where all those federal workers who got
fired but got severance might be coming
off that severance. So it might pick up
from there in terms of the government uh
guys.
>> Mike McKe, great work as always. Michael
McKe there down in Washington DC
breaking down this economic data. So
this is what we've got. Jobless claims
came in at 237. That's the wrong kind of
upside surprise against an estimate at
230. Continuing claims which have been
quite elevated over recent weeks comes
in lower than expected. So some
conflicting information there Brammo
maybe but ultimately claims are telling
you one thing really really stable very
low historically all this weakness is
showing up elsewhere.
>> Well Mike really raised it well and he
put it well this idea of the low higher
low fire churn dynamic where you can see
this is the unemployment rate among
young individuals who are just out of
college. The fact that they've got the
highest unemployment rate ever outside
of a recession. So, where it's showing
up is companies are choosing not to make
hires that they traditionally would do.
They're not firing, but they're not
necessarily uh really expanding their
workforce as we saw that in the
challenger data earlier this morning.
>> Looking for that step down in jobs
growth to continue tomorrow. The median
estimate in our survey for payrolls is
75K. I've talked a lot about the range.
The high is 144. The low is still zero.
Can you imagine a zero tomorrow morning?
>> I mean, what do you do with that? Is
that bad enough news to shake the
confidence in some sort of economic
recovery? Suddenly, do we price in a 50
basis point rate cut uh in the following
weeks? These are the questions that
people will be asking.
>> Then the more interesting question is,
can you imagine a 144, something pushing
200 if we got something much much
stronger that would feed this idea that
we're getting this reaceleration. I see
nothing like that in the data so far
this week with the exception of one
thing, that sub component of the ISM
manufacturing with new orders. Apart
from that, there's not much to hang your
hats on. On the flip side, what if you
get 50,000 jobs and then you also get
the unemployment rate coming down? I
mean, there all of these sort of
questionable uh sort of mixes that leave
people scratching their heads saying,
"What do we do with that?"
>> Let's throw some of these questions at
David Doyle of McQuary. David joins us
now for more. David, welcome to the
program. A lone churn dynamic in this
labor market. That's been true for quite
a while. David, there's been a worry it
breaks one way or the other and maybe in
the wrong way. How are you shaping
things up?
Yeah, look, I mean, obviously we have
low uh low hirings rate, low layoffs
rate, and I think that's impacting the
data in sort of broadly speaking in a
lot of ways. The way we're thinking
about it actually is, and I think it's
the point you you folks made off the top
is low labor force growth is, I think, a
big factor here. And, you know, when we
go back to look at what the economy was
doing in 2023 and 2024, you needed about
200,000 jobs per month in order to sort
of keep the unemployment rate stable. We
think that number's come in a lot. Um it
might only be 50,000 or or 75,000 at the
moment, potentially even lower than
that. And I think that that what that
means is you can have low months of low
low jobs growth but still have a steady
unemployment rate. And I think that's,
you know, largely shaped the data over
the past two or three months.
>> David, is there a contradiction here in
the idea that companies are accelerating
their profits while not necessarily
growing their workforces? Does that have
to change or is this the new reality?
Look, I I think I I agree with the
notion that things will break one way or
the other. Like I think we either see a
deceleration eventually or a
reaceleration. So, um I I I don't think
that I would be cautious in terms of
using the terms new reality. Now, it's
possible that we stay in this regime for
a few more months, maybe into the end of
this year. Um, but by 2026, we actually
are are fairly confident that you're
going to see the economy start to to
reacelerate as you get some of the
impacts of the one big beautiful act
taking effect and as you start to see
likely in all likelihood in our view
some of this policy uncertainty come in
a little bit to give more confidence in
the outlook.
>> It seems like a lot of people are
talking about the economy breaking to
the upside. How much risk is there of it
breaking to the downside at this point
given that very few people are talking
about that and that's not what's
currently being priced into risk assets
at all?
Look, I I think in the near term there's
there are risks of that. I think that
there are headwinds over the next few
months to real income growth, real wage
growth from the likelihood that we get
this tariff price pass through. That's
going to weigh on on real consumer
spending. And so potentially you take uh
you take a leg down. Um I wouldn't say a
contraction, but certainly lower growth
than what we've had in recent months or
recent quarters. And and so that slowing
though, I think paves the way for
reaceleration in 2026. So, I I I think
there's risks of a slowing, but I don't
think it's all too severe and and I do
think that things look start to look
better when we get to 2026.
>> David, you just talked about two issues
in Washington. One, the one big
beautiful bill and that could
potentially be fuel for next year. At
the same time, tariffs, which could
potentially dampen the outlook for next
year? Do they just equal each other out,
cancel each other out?
>> Well, that's a good question from a you
know, we we'll assume for now that the
tariffs remain in place, right? So there
are there is some uncertainty in that
regard. But if you assume the tariffs
remain in place, they largely, you know,
pay for the the deficit or increased
deficit impacts that flow from the one
big beautiful act. Um I in in our view
actually what we've seen so far this
year has been a significant effective
fiscal tightening from the the
implementation of the tariffs that's now
causing a slowdown in growth. Once you
get to 2026, that that tightening
actually you look at the math, it turns
into an easing, right? You've absorbed
the impacts of the tariffs, but then you
start to get some of the easing measures
that were in place in the One Big
Beautiful Act, and that can start to
support growth when you get to the first
quarter of 26.
>> Where exactly will we see that that
support from the One Big Beautiful bill?
>> So, you you've got larger tax refund
checks. We think that will flow through
to consumers from, you know, no tax on
tips, no tax on overtime, etc. Um, the
other element you could see it in is in
fixed business investment, right? you
get 100% immediate expensing and and
other business tax measures that were
were were part of that one big beautiful
act that could provide support in in
that regard. But you know, so those are
the the sort of the sub elements to it.
But when we look at it, we just look at
the broad fiscal deficit. The broad
fiscal deficit has narrowed this year.
When you look at the math for 2026, it's
likely to expand, you know, suggesting
that the the government spending and and
the fiscal policy becomes more
supportive of growth.
>> And David, can we just stay on this
reaceleration theme? I just want to dig
into that a little bit more with you. Is
that a consequence of the rate cuts
people are expecting or is this a Fed
cutting interest rates into a
reaceleration?
>> So, look, I I think that that's the it's
a bit more nuanced than that. It's a
good question. Uh I look, I don't I
don't think we're at the reaceleration
just yet, right? I I do think that
there's some more headwinds to come in
the near term. So, the Fed is almost cut
if if the Fed proceeds with cuts, in our
view, they're doing it at the end of a
of a slowdown type of period.
potentially those cuts would contribute
to to a reaceleration later in the year.
But to be quite frank, I mean, I I don't
really think that the effects will be
all that significant. We're not talking
about a dramatic shift in policy. The
market's already pricing in the cuts. I
think delivering, you know, 25 50 basis
points through the end of this year um
isn't likely to to to move the needle
too much on what we're looking for in
2026.
>> And just quickly, what's the number
you're looking for tomorrow?
Uh
>> always a mug's game to to forecast the
monthly payrolls number. Uh, I'm going
with 100,000. A little bit too much.
>> And do you consider 100k in today's
environment a good number? Is that more
of a structural story and less of a
cyclical one?
>> So, it's a structural story. Yes. And
given the low labor force growth that's
currently being experienced, 100,000
jobs in a month could be consistent with
a tick down in the unemployment rate.
Not saying that we're going to get that,
but it could be consistent with it.
>> Something to think about. David, thank
you, sir. Appreciate it. David Doler of
McQuary. That was the scenario that you
were leaning into before this
conversation started
>> because of the low turn kind of dynamic
that even just a little bit of job
creation could end up with a lower
unemployment rate. The point you were
making are is the Fed cutting into a
reaceleration or is the reaceleration on
the heels of the Fed rate cut? I'm still
thinking about that because ultimately
that determines inflation, right? I
mean, if they're cutting into a
reaceleration, could that just juice
things in a way that would allow price
increases to become more entrenched
>> and juice this market, too? A market
that's rallied pretty hard coming into
September. Equity futures still just
about positive on the S&P going into the
opening bell 50 minutes from now. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's your
Hira. Hey, Hyra.
>> Hi, John. A recap of this morning's
labor market data. Hiring at private
sector jobs slowed in August with ADP
data showing 54,000 jobs added in the
month. That's roughly half the pace of
the prior month and below the median
estimate of 68,000 jobs. Elsewhere,
weekly jobless claims rose to the
highest level since June at 237,000,
adding to evidence that the labor market
is cooling. Meanwhile, Russian President
Vladimir Putin told his Ukrainian
counterpart. Vladimir Zalinski that he
should come to Moscow to hold peace
talks. Putin, who was attending
Beijing's massive military parade on
Wednesday, also claimed he never refused
a meeting with the Ukrainian president.
And the NFL season officially kicks off
tonight with a matchup between the
Dallas Cowboys and Super Bowl champions,
the Philadelphia Eagles. But NBC is the
big winner. The network said this season
will be its highest grossing yet, having
already sold out its ads for Super for
the Super Bowl in February. It's also
said 90% of its ads inventory for Sunday
Night Football. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> some serious money. Yhara, thank you.
Appreciate it. Up next on our program,
Sebra Shapper of Silk Chen as the
30-year Treasury yield continues to back
away from 5% and we count you down to an
important hearing on Capitol Hill with
Steven Myron from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
It's a very very sluggish labor market.
And I think what's important is that,
you know, consumers are telling us
pretty clearly that labor market
conditions are deteriorating. My sense
is that there's an ongoing sort of labor
market slowdown that's already in train.
I think we're maybe entering a situation
where the markets will have to price in
more rate cuts and may that may not be
so good.
>> That was Neil Delta of Renmack on the
program with us a little bit earlier
following a downside surprise on ADP.
The jobs number came in at 54K. The
estimate was 68. Jobless claims the
wrong kind of upside to price 237 versus
an estimate of 230. Still jobless claims
pretty stable at the moment given the
picture elsewhere. The picture elsewhere
hasn't been great for this labor market
so far this week. Equities look like
this going into the opening bale equity
futures still positive by a tenth of 1%
on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.1.
Also in the bond market things stabilize
a touch down two basis points at the
front end of a curve 360 on twos as this
market positions for more rate cuts from
this Federal Reserve. Sticking with the
Fed, Sabbatra Jaffer of Sockgen
remaining slightly cautious, writing
this. While the hope is for lower policy
rates to stimulate the mortgage market,
that could backfire. We could see a
repeat of last September when a 50 basis
point rate cut resulted in higher longen
yields. Sebatra joins us now for more.
Sebatric, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Going to pick up on the line of
questioning that we finished the last
interview. Is this Federal Reserve
cutting into strength? It feels like it
because if you look at a lot of the data
that's come in, economic surprises have
been on to to the positive side. You
know, the growth momentum into the
second quarter is also on the positive
side. Inflation is high and sticky. The
job market, as Mike McKe was pointing
out, there's no hirings, there's no
firings. It's it's in a state of stasis.
Um, so to me, it feels like that plus
all of the fiscal stimulus that could
potentially come down the pike could be
something that could move the markets
higher. So it feels to me like some of
these cuts that are priced into the
market are more preemptive than uh than
really something that's warranted.
>> Is this something that's tradable now or
is this just sort of warning shot ahead
of what could be a tumultuous couple of
months?
>> I think so. I mean the market's pricing
in nearly six cuts between now and the
end of end of next year. Uh the markets
uh you know people are looking at you
know a cut in maybe three cuts this
year. Uh to me it feels like if they cut
sooner and more aggressively they won't
be able to cut as much next year. So the
neutral rate is going to have to be a
lot higher given the fact that inflation
is still high and sticky and the risk is
that you could see a reaceleration of
inflationary pressure. So the market to
me feels like it's overpricing cuts
between now and the end of next year
>> even with the political uh impetus,
right? I mean how do you sort of overlay
any kind of political interference with
this given that right now this is a Fed
that has a doubbish bias and might have
an even more dovish bias by the time we
get around to 2026. So that's the part
that's tricky and I think that that's
part of the reason why the market's
pricing in six cuts by the end of next
year. So the market's really looking at
what the Fed could do as opposed to what
the Fed should do. So to me it's very
hard to really kind of separate the two
aspects. One is if we have a very
doubbish committee next year that could
really change the dynamics in the
market. But over the long run that to me
leads to Fed credibility. A lot of times
we look at the market and say that you
know the bond market is is very
complacent right now. Volatility is very
very low but you could see a pretty
significant sell off in in bonds bond
yields in a very short amount of time if
there is a crisis of confidence but
there isn't right now. How much are you
going to be watching this Steven Myin
Senate confirmation hearing just to
really as Terry Haynes put it read the
body language of the Senate which at the
end of the day the purview of the Fed
does belong to Congress.
>> Yeah. I mean it it is important. We will
be paying attention to what he's uh he's
saying, but it's really a committee
decision as of now. It really depends on
what the composition of the committee is
going to be next year, who uh you know,
President Trump nominates to be the next
Fed chair. So again, there's a lot of
uncertainty, but there's a lot of
complacency I think in the bond markets.
Um you know, just going back into the
last say uh you know, few years, we've
seen many episodes when the the when
bond yields have risen sharply. We saw
you know 150 basis points of bond yields
rise after uh you know August of of 2023
when you know the Treasury issuance you
know coupon issuance sizes changed we
saw a pretty decent selloff in in in
bonds even last year when the Fed cut
rates by 50 basis points. So, you know,
to me it feels like there is just that
feeling that everything is going to be
status quo when there's just a lot of
uncertainty coming down the pike.
Whether it be Fed independence, whether
it be the the trajectory for debt and
deficits, not just in the US, but also
globally and other kind of uh you know,
extraneous factors like tariffs um and
that working through the legal uh
system.
>> I think you build an incredible case,
but what's been surprising for me is
just how stable the Treasury market
actually has been. Yes, we've had
steepening in America like we've had
steepening in Europe, but this
steepening has been completely
different. It's been led by the front
end. Tens and 30s have been really
resilient, really resilient relative to
some of the chaos in France, some of the
chaos in the UK. What's supporting the
Treasury market right now? Maybe that's
an interesting question to ask. What is
supporting this? What is keeping tens at
420 30s away from 5%.
So I think that when you look at the
composition of where in people can
invest, I mean clearly the front end is
is is pegged to Fed expectations and
market is pricing and as I said a lot of
of cuts over the next year and year and
a half and then when when that trade's
maxed out investors kind of move on to
the belly of the curve and the belly is
really where you've seen a lot of the
flows. I mean the two spice curve
actually inverted a few times. You're
seeing a lot of demand for the five and
10 year part of the yield curve and
investors broadly speaking are concerned
about putting money beyond that 10-year
sector because there's a lot of
volatility in the very long end not just
from the debt and deficit trajectory for
the US but also what's happening
globally. You're looking at you know the
the picture in Japan or uh you know the
political uh you know unrest in in in
France that all argues for longer I mean
higher long end yields. So really the
the the center of gravity for the
treasury market seems to be the value of
the curve.
>> So last year they dropped rates 100
basis points, yields rose at the long
end by 100 basis points. What are you
actually looking for into year end? What
kind of number?
>> You know the uh to me it feels like the
10-year yield is still going to stay
between 4 and 4 1/2%. Yes. To me the
risk is that we might actually start
drifting towards 4 and a half% if the
market starts to get concerned about
kind of the inflationary uh you know
impact of tariffs that feeding through
or if there's any sort of concern over
Fed credibility. But you know the
different sectors of the yield curve are
still going to be remain rangebound.
Where I'm really concerned about yields
getting unhinched is in the very long
end. I think 30-year yields could very
easily get to to 525. I mean we saw a
lot of volatility in just this week in
the in the 30-year. So it's very
conceivable that you you start seeing
you know that sort of uh you know
concern play out in the very long end of
the year curve
>> saw a massive range yesterday in just
yesterday's session. So appreciate it.
Thoughtful stuff as always. Thank you
Zraappa there of Jen. 30-year bond
yields very close to 5% in yesterday's
session within a basis point now back
down to about 487 and down three basis
points on the day. Let's talk about the
big event. takes place in about an hour
and 7 minutes time. Fed Pick Steven
Myron preparing for a grilling on
Capitol Hill. Tyler Kendall joins us
from Washington for more. Tyler, walk us
through the procedure here, the process
down in Washington.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. So, Stephen Myron,
we'll be in front of the Senate Banking
Committee starting at 10 a.m. Eastern.
And this is the first step in what we're
expecting to be a pretty expedited
confirmation process for Myron. And
today the spotlight's going to be on him
and his bid to try to reassure lawmakers
that he's committed to the central
bank's independence. But I'll also point
out that we are closely watching some
key senators here because this is really
going to give us a rare glimpse into how
some of these Senate Republicans are
balancing their prior support for Fed
independence, but their current support
for President Trump. And while we're not
expecting any Republicans to vote
against Myron, I will say my eyes on
some key ones like John Kennedy, Mike
Browns, Tom Tillis, who actually met
with Myron last night because these have
been the lawmakers that are perhaps a
little bit more staunch in their support
for the job that Fed Chair Jerome Powell
has been doing. Now, with that said, we
got the prepared testimony from Myron.
He's going to give brief remarks before
he takes questions. And in that prepared
testimony, as you've been covering all
morning, he says he's going to be
committed to preserving Federal Reserve
independence. But with that said, we
know that there's this paper that he
authored last year where he suggested
that there should actually be more
presidential control over the central
bank, putting forward some perhaps
controversial changes, including
potentially changing the term limits of
Fed governors and subjecting the central
bank to the congressional budget
appropriations process. John, at this
point, Democrats have conceded privately
to us that they don't have a lot of
procedural options to really stall this
vote ahead of the September FOMC
meeting.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Looking forward to the
coverage down in Washington DC. As we've
said a few times, credibility here is
important and it's not about getting
credibility with the people in the room.
There's an obvious and clear political
divide down in Washington DC. No point
even discussing that. It's about having
credibility with the market and as Neil
Data said, having credibility as well
with your future colleagues, some of
which are still very much on the fence
when it comes to September and cutting
interest rates.
>> Given some of these big questions, you
pointed out that Treasury yields have
been remarkably stable. So, while people
are fretting about it, there has been
the stability in the bond market. I ask
why, and it's because of this two-sided
risk. On one hand, you see the labor
market data coming in soft enough to get
people worried that maybe things could
break to the downside. While people are
thinking, well, hold on a second. Maybe
this is going to be a central bank
predisposed to running the economy hot,
which could be the other way around,
cutting into a reaceleration. That is
the tension keeping things sta in
stasis. When it comes to credibility
with his colleagues, it's going to be
very challenging in the sense that this
is someone who also wrote a paper about
the revolving door between the Fed and
the White House. Yeah,
>> there's an open question that maybe he
goes back to CA after the short stint at
the Fed.
>> That hearing an hour and 4 minutes away.
Coming up tomorrow, full coverage for
you. Chris Feron of Strategus, Sarah
House of Wells Fargo, Nadia Love of UBS,
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research, the
jobs report up next.
[Music]